The black revolt of the 1950s and 1960s-North and South-came as a surprise.
 But perhaps it should not have. The memory of oppressed people is one thing that cannot be taken away, and for such people, with such memories, revolt is always an inch below the surface. For blacks in the United States, there was the memory of slavery, and after that of segregation, lynching, humiliation. And it was not just a memory but a living presence-part of the daily lives of blacks in generation after generation.
In the 1930s, Langston Hughes wrote a poem, "Lenox Avenue Mural":
What happens to a dream deferred?
Does it dry up
like 
a raisin in the sun?
Or fester like a sore-
And then run?
Does it stink like rotten meat?
Or crust and sugar over-
like a syrupy sweet?
Maybe it just sags like a heavy load.
Or does it explode?
In a society of complex controls, both crude and refined, secret thoughts can often he found in the arts, and so it was in black society. Perhaps the blues, however pathetic, concealed anger; and the jazz, however joyful, portended rebellion. And then the poetry, the thoughts no longer so secret. In the 1920s, Claude McKay, one of the figures of what came to be called the 
"Harlem Renaissance,"
 wrote a poem that Henry Cabot Lodge put in the Congressional Record as an example of dangerous currents among young blacks:
If we must die, let it not be like hogs
hunted and penned in an inglorious spot. . ..
Like men we'll face the murderous cowardly pack,
Pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back!Countee Cullen's poem "Incident" evoked memories-all different, all the same-out of every black American's childhood:
Once riding in old Baltimore,
Heart-filled, head-filled with glee,
I saw a Baltimorean
Keep looking straight at me.
Now I was eight and very small,
And he was no whit bigger,
And so I smiled, but he poked out
His tongue, and called me, "Nigger,"
I saw the whole of Baltimore
From May until December;
Of all the things that happened there
That's all that I remember.
At the time of the Scottsboro Boys incident,
 Cullen wrote a bitter poem noting that white poets had used their pens to protest in other cases of injustice, but now that blacks were involved, most were silent. His last stanza was:
Surely, I said,
Now will the poets sing.
But they have raised no cry.
I wonder why.Even outward subservience-Uncle Tom behavior in real situations, the comic or fawning Negro on the stage, the self-ridicule, the caution-concealed resentment, anger, energy. 
The black poet Paul Laurence Dunbar, in the era of the black minstrel, around the turn of the century, wrote "We Wear the Mask":
We wear the mask that grins and lies,
It hides our cheeks and shades our eyes,-
. . . We sing, but oh, the clay is vile
Beneath our feet, and long the mile;
But let the world dream otherwise,
We wear the mask.
Two black performers of that time played the minstrel and satirized it at the same time. When Bert Williams and George Walker billed themselves as "Two Real Coons," they were, Nathan Huggins says, "intending to give style and comic dignity to a fiction that white men had created...."
By the 1930s the mask was off for many black poets. Langston Hughes wrote "I, Too."
I, too, sing America
I am the darker brother.
They send me to eat in the kitchen
When company comes,
But I laugh,
And eat well,
And grow strong.
Tomorrow,
I'll be at the table
When company comes. . ..Gwendolyn Bennett wrote:
I want to see lithe Negro girls,
Etched dark against the sky
While sunset lingers. ...
I want to hear the chanting
Around a heathen fire
Of a strange black race....
I want to feel the surging
Of my sad people's soul
Hidden by a minstrel-smile.
There was Margaret Walker's prose-poem "For My People":
. . . Let a new earth rise. Let another world be born. Let a bloody peace be written in the sky. Let a second generation full of courage issue forth, let a people loving freedom come to growth, let a beauty full of healing and a strength of final clenching be the pulsing in our spirits and our blood. Let the martial songs be written, let the dirges disappear. Let a race of men now rise and take control!
By the 1940s there was Richard Wright, a gifted novelist, a black man. His autobiography of 1937, Black Boy, gave endless insights: for instance, how blacks were set against one another, when he told how he was prodded to fight another black boy for the amusement of white men. Black Boy expressed unashamedly every humiliation and then:
The white South said that it knew "niggers," and I was what the white South called a "nigger." Well, the white South had never known me-never known what I thought, what I felt. The white South said that I had a "place" in life. Well, I had never felt my "place"; or, rather, my deepest instincts had always made me reject the "place" to which the white South had assigned me. It had never occurred to me that I was in any way an inferior being. And no word that I had ever heard fall from the lips of southern white men had ever made me really doubt the worth of my own humanity.
It was all there in the poetry, the prose, the music, sometimes masked, sometimes unmistakably clear-the signs of a people unbeaten, waiting, hot, coiled.
In Black Boy, Wright told about the training of black children in America to keep them silent. But also:
How do Negroes feel about the way they have to live? How do they discuss it when alone among themselves? I think this question can be answered in a single sentence, A friend of mine who ran an elevator once told me:
"Lawd, man! Ef it wuzn't fer them polices 'n' them ol' lynch mobs, there wouldn't be nothin' but uproar down here!"
Richard Wright, for a time, joined the Communist party (he tells of this period of his life, and his disillusionment with the party, in The God That Failed). The Communist party was known to pay special attention to the problem of race equality. When the Scottsboro case unfolded in the 1930s in Alabama, it was the Communist party that had become associated with the defense of these young black men imprisoned, in the early years of the Depression, by southern injustice.
The party was accused by liberals and the NAACP of exploiting the issue for its own purposes, and there was a half-truth in it, but black people were realistic about the difficulty of having white allies who were pure in motive. The other half of the truth was that black Communists in the South had earned the admiration of blacks by their organizing work against enormous obstacles. There was Hosea Hudson, the black organizer of the unemployed in Birmingham, for instance. And in Georgia, in 1932, a nineteen-year-old black youth named Angelo Herndon, whose father died of miners pneumonia, who had worked in mines as a boy in Kentucky, joined an Unemployment Council in Birmingham organized by the Communist party, and then joined the party. He wrote later:
All my life I'd been sweated and stepped-on and Jim-Crowed. I lay on my belly in the mines for a few dollars a week, and saw my pay stolen and slashed, and my buddies killed. I lived in the worst section of town, and rode behind the "Colored" signs on streetcars, as though there was something disgusting about me. I heard myself called "nigger" and "darky" and I had to say "Yes, sir" to every white man, whether he had my respect or not.
I had always detested it, but I had never known that anything could be done about it. And here, all of a sudden, I had found organizations in which Negroes and whites sat together, and worked together, and knew no difference of race or color. .. .
Herndon became a Communist party organizer in Atlanta. He and his fellow Communists organized block committees of Unemployment Councils in 1932 which got rent relief for needy people. They organized a demonstration to which a thousand people came, six hundred of them white, and the next day the city voted $6,000 in relief to the jobless. But soon after that Herndon was arrested, held incommunicado, and charged with violating a Georgia statute against insurrection. He recalled his trial:
The state of Georgia displayed the literature that had been taken from my room, and read passages of it to the jury. They questioned me in great detail. Did I believe that the bosses and government ought to pay insurance to unemployed workers? That Negroes should have complete equality with white people? Did I believe in the demand for the self- determination of the Black Belt - that the Negro people should be allowed to rule the Black Belt territory, kicking out the white landlords and government officials? Did I feel that the working- class could run the mills and mines and government? That it wasn't necessary to have bosses at all?
I told them I believed all of that—and more. . ..
Herndon was convicted and spent five years in prison until in 1937 the Supreme Court ruled unconstitutional the Georgia statute under which he was found guilty. It was men like him who represented to the Establishment a dangerous militancy among blacks, made more dangerous when linked with the Communist party.
There were others who made that same connection, magnifying the danger: Benjamin Davis, the black lawyer who defended Herndon at his trial; nationally renowned men like 
singer and actor Paul Robeson,
 and 
writer and scholar W. E. B. Du Bois,
 who did not hide their support and sympathy for the Communist party. The Negro was not as anti-Communist as the white population. He could not afford to be, his friends were so few—so that Herndon, Davis, Robeson, Du Bois, however their political views might be maligned by the country as a whole, found admiration for their fighting spirit in the black community. The black militant mood, flashing here and there in the thirties, was reduced to a subsurface simmering during World War II, when the nation on the one hand denounced racism, and on the other hand maintained segregation in the armed forces and kept blacks in low-paying jobs. When the war ended, a new element entered the racial balance in the United States—the enormous, unprecedented upsurge of black and yellow people in Africa and Asia.
President Harry Truman had to reckon with this, especially as the cold war rivalry with the Soviet Union began, 
and the dark-skinned revolt of former colonies all over the world threatened to take Marxist form
. Action on the race question was needed, not just to calm a black population at home emboldened by war promises, frustrated by the basic sameness of their condition, It was needed to present to the world a United States that could counter the continuous Communist thrust at the most flagrant failure of American society-the race question. What Du Bois had said long ago, unnoticed, now loomed large in 1945: "The problem of the 20th century is the problem of the color line."
President Harry Truman, in late 1946, appointed a Committee on Civil Rights, which recommended that the civil rights section of the Department of Justice be expanded, that there be a permanent Commission on Civil Rights, that Congress pass laws against lynching and to stop voting discrimination, and suggested new laws to end racial discrimination in jobs.
Truman's Committee was blunt about its motivation in making these recommendations. Yes, it said, there was "moral reason": a matter of conscience. But there was also an "economic reason"- discrimination was costly to the country, wasteful of its talent. And, perhaps most important, there was an international reason:
Our position in the post-war world is so vital to the future that our smallest actions have tar- reaching effects. .. . We cannot escape the fact that our civil rights record has been an issue in world politics. The world's press and radio are full of it. . ., Those with competing philosophies have stressed-and are shamelessly distorting-our shortcomings. . . . They have tried to prove our democracy an empty fraud, and our nation a consistent oppressor of underprivileged people. This may seem ludicrous to Americans, but it is sufficiently important to worry our friends. The United States is not so strong, the final triumph of the democratic ideal is not so inevitable that we can ignore what the world thinks of us or our record.
The United States was out in the world now in a way it had never been. The stakes were large—world supremacy. And, as Truman's Committee said: "...our smallest actions have far-reaching effects."
And so the United States went ahead to take small actions, hoping they would have large effects. Congress did not move to enact the legislation asked for by the Committee on Civil Rights. But Truman—four months before the presidential election of 1948, and challenged from the left in that election by Progressive party candidate Henry Wallace—issued an executive order asking that the armed forces, segregated in World War II, institute policies of racial equality "as rapidly as possible." The order may have been prompted not only by the election but by the need to maintain black morale in the armed forces, as the possibility of war grew. It took over a decade to complete the desegregation in the military.
Truman could have issued executive orders in other areas, but did not. The Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, plus the set of laws passed in the late 1860s and early 1870s, gave the President enough authority to wipe out racial discrimination. The Constitution demanded that the President execute the laws, but no President had used that power. Neither did Truman. For instance, he asked Congress for legislation "prohibiting discrimination in interstate transportation facilities"; but specific legislation in 1887 already barred discrimination in interstate transportation and had never been enforced by executive action.
Meanwhile, the Supreme Court was taking steps-ninety years after the Constitution had been amended to establish racial equality-to move toward that end. During the war it ruled that the "white primary" used to exclude blacks from voting in the Democratic party primaries- which in the South were really the elections-was unconstitutional.
In 1954, the Court finally struck down the "separate but equal" doctrine that it had defended since the 1890s. The NAACP brought a series of cases before the Court to challenge segregation in the public schools, and now in Brown v. Board of Education the Court said the separation of schoolchildren "generates a feeling of inferiority .. . that may affect their hearts and minds in a way unlikely ever to be undone." In the field of public education, it said, "the doctrine of 'separate but equal' has no place." The Court did not insist on immediate change: a year later it said that segregated facilities should he integrated "with all deliberate speed." By 1965, ten years after the "all deliberate speed" guideline, more than 75 percent of the school districts in the South remained segregated.
Still, it was a dramatic decision—and the message went around the world in 1954 that the American government had outlawed segregation. In the United States too, for those not thinking about the customary gap between word and fact, it was an exhilarating sign of change.
What to others seemed rapid progress to blacks was apparently not enough. In the early 1960s black people rose in rebellion all over the South. And in the late 1960s they were engaging in wild insurrection in a hundred northern cities. It was all a surprise to those without that deep memory of slavery, that everyday presence of humiliation, registered in the poetry, the music, the occasional outbursts of anger, the more frequent sullen silences. Part of that memory was of words uttered, laws passed, decisions made, which turned out to be meaningless.
For such a people, with such a memory, and such daily recapitulation of history, revolt was always minutes away, in a timing mechanism which no one had set, but which might go off with some unpredictable set of events. Those events came, at the end of 1955, in the capital city of Alabama- Montgomery.
Three months after her arrest, Mrs. Rosa Parks, a forty-three-year-old seamstress, explained why she refused to obey the Montgomery law providing for segregation on city buses, why she decided to sit down in the "white" section of the bus:
Well, in the first place, I had been working all day on the job. I was quite tired after spending a full day working. I handle and work on clothing that white people wear. That didn't come in my mind but this is what I wanted to know: when and how would we ever determine our rights as human beings? ... It just happened that the driver made a demand and I just didn't feel like obeying his demand. He called a policeman and I was arrested and placed in jail....
Montgomery blacks called a mass meeting. A powerful force in the community was F. D. Nixon, a veteran trade unionist and experienced organizer. There was a vote to boycott all city buses. Car pools were organized to take Negroes to work; most people walked. The city retaliated by indicting one hundred leaders of the boycott, and sent many to jail. White segregationists turned to violence. Bombs exploded in four Negro churches. A shotgun blast was fired through the front door of the home of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the twenty-seven-year-old Altanta-born minister who was one of the leaders of the boycott. King's home was bombed. But the black people of Montgomery persisted, and in November 1956, the Supreme Court outlawed segregation on local bus lines.
Montgomery was the beginning. It forecast the style and mood of the vast protest movement that would sweep the South in the next ten years: emotional church meetings, Christian hymns adapted to current battles, references to lost American ideals, the commitment to nonviolence, the willingness to struggle and sacrifice. A New York Times reporter described a mass meeting in Montgomery during the boycott:
One after the other, indicted Negro leaders took the rostrum in a crowded Baptist church tonight to urge their followers to shun the city's buses and "walk with God."
More than two thousand Negroes filled the church from basement to balcony and overflowed into the street. They chanted and sang; they shouted and prayed; they collapsed in the aisles and they sweltered in an eighty-five degree heat. They pledged themselves again and again to "passive resistance." Under this banner they have carried on for eighty days a stubborn boycott of the city's buses.
Martin Luther King at that meeting gave a preview of the oratory that would soon inspire millions of people to demand racial justice. He said the protest was not merely over buses but over things that "go deep down into the archives of history." He said:
We have known humiliation, we have known abusive language, we have been plunged into the abyss of oppression. And we decided to raise up only with the weapon of protest. It is one of the greatest glories of America that we have the right of protest.
If we are arrested every day, if we are exploited every day, if we are trampled over every day, don't ever let anyone pull you so low as to hate them. We must use the weapon of love. We must have compassion and understanding for those who hate us. We must realize so many people are taught to hate us that they are not totally responsible for their hate. But we stand in life at midnight, we are always on the threshold of a new dawn.
King's stress on love and nonviolence was powerfully effective in building a sympathetic following throughout the nation, among whites as well as blacks. But there were blacks who thought the message naive, that while there were misguided people who might be won over by love, there were others who would have to be bitterly fought, and not always with nonviolence. Two years after the Montgomery boycott, in Monroe, North Carolina, an ex-marine named Robert Williams, the president of the local NAACP, became known for his view that blacks should defend themselves against violence, with guns if necessary. When local Klansmen attacked the home of one of the leaders of the Monroe NAACP, Williams and other blacks, armed with rifles, fired back. The Klan left. (The Klan was being challenged now with its own tactic of violence; a Klan raid on an Indian community in North Carolina was repelled by Indians firing rifles.)
Still, in the years that followed, southern blacks stressed nonviolence. On February 1, 1960, four freshmen at a Negro college in Greensboro, North Carolina, decided to sit down at the Woolworth's lunch counter downtown, where only whites ate. They were refused service, and when they would not leave, the lunch counter was closed for the day. The next day they returned, and then, day after day, other Negroes came to sit silently.
In the next two weeks, sit-ins spread to fifteen cities in five southern states. A seventeen-year-old sophomore at Spelman College in Atlanta, Ruby Doris Smith, heard about Greensboro:
When the student committee was formed . .. I told my older sister ... to put me on the list. And when two hundred students were selected for the first demonstration I was among them. I went through the food line in the restaurant at the State Capitol with six other students, but when we got to the cashier she wouldn't take our money. .. . The Lieutenant-Governor came down and told us to leave. We didn't and went to the county jail.
In his Harlem apartment in New York, a young Negro teacher of mathematics named Bob Moses saw a photo in the newspapers of the Greensboro sit-inners. "The students in that picture had a certain look on their faces, sort of sullen, angry, determined. Before, the Negro in the South had always looked on the defensive, cringing. This time they were taking the initiative. They were kids my age, and I knew this had something to do with my own life."
There was violence against the sit-inners. But the idea of taking the initiative against segregation took hold. In the next twelve months, more than fifty thousand people, mostly black, some white, participated in demonstrations of one kind or another in a hundred cities, and over 3,600 people were put in jail. But by the end of 1960, lunch counters were open to blacks in Greensboro and many other places.
A year after the Greensboro incident, a northern-based group dedicated to racial equality—CORE (Congress of Racial Equality)—organized "Freedom Rides" in which blacks and whites traveled together on buses going through the South, to try to break the segregation pattern in interstate travel. Such segregation had long been illegal, but the federal government never enforced the law in the South; the President now was John F. Kennedy, but he too seemed cautious about the race question, concerned about the support of southern white leaders of the Democratic party.
The two buses that left Washington, D.C., on May 4, 1963, headed for New Orleans, never got there. In South Carolina, riders were beaten. In Alabama, a bus was set afire. Freedom Riders were attacked with fists and iron bars. The southern police did not interfere with any of this violence, nor did the federal government. FBI agents watched, took notes, did nothing.
At this point, veterans of the sit-ins, who had recently formed the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), dedicated to nonviolent but militant action for equal rights, organized another Freedom Ride, from Nashville to Birmingham. Before they started out, they called the Department of Justice in Washington, D.C., to ask for protection. As Ruby Doris Smith reported: ". . . the Justice Department said no, they couldn't protect anyone, but if something happened, they would investigate. You know how they do...."
The racially mixed SNCC Freedom Riders were arrested in Birmingham, Alabama, spent a night in jail, were taken to the Tennessee border by police, made their way back to Birmingham, took a bus to Montgomery, and there were attacked by whites with fists and clubs, in a bloody scene. They resumed their trip, to Jackson, Mississippi.
By this time the Freedom Riders were in the news all over the world, and the government was anxious to prevent further violence. Attorney General Robert Kennedy, instead of insisting on their right to travel without being arrested, agreed to the Freedom Riders' being arrested in Jackson, in return for Mississippi police protection against possible mob violence. As Victor Navasky comments in Kennedy Justice, about Robert Kennedy: "He didn't hesitate to trade the freedom riders' constitutional right to interstate travel for Senator Eastland's guarantee of their right to live."
The Freedom Riders did not become subdued in jail. They resisted, protested, sang, demanded their rights. Stokely Carmichael recalled later how he and his fellow inmates were singing in the Parchman jail in Mississippi and the sheriff threatened to take away their mattresses:
I hung on to the mattress and said, "I think we have a right to them and I think you're unjust." And he said, "I don't want to hear all that shit, nigger," and started to put on the wristbreakers. I wouldn't move and started to sing "I'm Gonna Tell God How You Treat Me" and everybody started to sing it, and by this time Tyson was really to pieces. He called to the trusties, "Get him in there!" and he went out the door and slammed it, and left everybody else with their mattresses.
In Albany, Georgia, a small deep-South town where the atmosphere of slavery still lingered, mass demonstrations took place in the winter of 1961 and again in 1962. Of 22,000 black people in Albany, over a thousand went to jail for marching, assembling, to protest segregation and discrimination. Here, as in all the demonstrations that would sweep over the South, little black children participated-a new generation was learning to act. The Albany police chief, after one of the mass arrests, was taking the names of prisoners lined up before his desk. He looked up and saw a Negro boy about nine years old. "What's your name?" The boy looked straight at him and said: "Freedom, Freedom."
There is no way of measuring the effect of that southern movement on the sensibilities of a whole generation of young black people, or of tracing the process by which some of them became activists and leaders. In Lee County, Georgia, after the events of 1961-1962, a black teenager named James Crawford joined SNCC and began taking black people to the county courthouse to vote. One day, bringing a woman there, he was approached by the deputy registrar. Another SNCC worker took notes on the conversation:
REGISTRAR:	What do you want?
CRAWFORD:	I brought this lady down to register.
REGISTRAR:	(after giving the woman a card to fill out and sending her outside in the hall) Why did you bring this lady down here?
CRAWFORD:	Because she wants to be a first class citizen like y'all.
REGISTRAR:	Who are you to bring people down to register?
CRAWFORD:	It's my job.
REGISTRAR:	Suppose you get two bullets in your head right now?
CRAWFORD:	I got to die anyhow.
REGISTRAR:	If I don't do it, I can get somebody else to do it. (No reply)
REGISTRAR:	Are you scared?
CRAWFORD:	No.
REGISTRAR:	Suppose somebody came in that door and shoot you in the back of the head right now. What would you do?
CRAWFORD:	I couldn't do nothing. If they shoot me in the back of the head there are people coming from all over the world.
CRAWFORD:	What people?
REGISTRAR:	The people I work for.
In Birmingham in 1963, thousands of blacks went into the streets, facing police clubs, tear gas, dogs, high-powered water hoses. And meanwhile, all over the deep South, the young people of SNCC, mostly black, a few white, were moving into communities in Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas. Joined by local black people, they were organizing, to register people to vote, to protest against racism, to build up courage against violence. The Department of Justice recorded 1412 demonstrations in three months of 1963. Imprisonment became commonplace, beatings became frequent. Many local people were afraid. Others came forward. A nineteen-year- old black student from Illinois named Carver Neblett, working for SNCC in Terrell County, Georgia, reported:
I talked with a blind man who is extremely interested in the civil rights movement. He has been keeping up with the movement from the beginning. Even though this man is blind he wants to learn all the questions on the literacy test. Imagine, while many are afraid that white men will burn our houses, shoot into them, or put us off their property, a blind man, seventy years old, wants to come to our meetings.
As the summer of 1964 approached, SNCC and other civil rights groups working together in Mississippi, and facing increasing violence, decided to call upon young people from other parts of the country for help. They hoped that would bring attention to the situation in Mississippi. Again and again in Mississippi and elsewhere, the FBI had stood by, lawyers for the Justice Department had stood by, while civil rights workers were beaten and jailed, while federal laws were violated.
On the eve of the Mississippi Summer, in early June 1964, the civil rights movement rented a theater near the White House, and a busload of black Mississippians traveled to Washington to testify publicly about the daily violence, the dangers facing the volunteers coming into Mississippi. Constitutional lawyers testified that the national government had the legal power to give protection against such violence. The transcript of this testimony was given to President Johnson and Attorney General Kennedy, accompanied by a request for a protective federal presence during the Mississippi Summer. There was no response.
Twelve days after the public hearing, three civil rights workers, James Chaney, a young black Mississippian, and two white volunteers, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner, were arrested in Philadelphia, Mississippi, released from jail late at night, then seized, beaten with chains, and shot to death. Ultimately, an informer's testimony led to jail sentences for the sheriff and deputy sheriff and others. That came too late. The Mississippi murders had taken place after the repeated refusal of the national government, under Kennedy or Johnson, or any other President, to defend blacks against violence.
Dissatisfaction with the national government intensified. Later that summer, during the Democratic National Convention in Washington, Mississippi, blacks asked to be seated as part of the state delegation to represent the 40 percent of the state's population who were black. They were turned down by the liberal Democratic leadership, including vice-presidential candidate Hubert Humphrey.
Congress began reacting to the black revolt, the turmoil, the world publicity. Civil rights laws were passed in 1957, 1960, and 1964. They promised much, on voting equality, on employment equality, but were enforced poorly or ignored. In 1965, President Johnson sponsored and Congress passed an even stronger Voting Rights Law, this time ensuring on-the-spot federal protection of the right to register and vote. The effect on Negro voting in the South was dramatic. In 1952, a million southern blacks (20 percent of those eligible) registered to vote, In 1964 the number was 2 million- 40 percent. By 1968, it was 3 million, 60 percent—the same percentage as white voters.
The federal government was trying—without making fundamental changes—to control an explosive situation, to channel anger into the traditional cooling mechanism of the ballot box, the polite petition, the officially endorsed quiet gathering. When black civil rights leaders planned a huge march on Washington in the summer of 1963 to protest the failure of the nation to solve the race problem, it was quickly embraced by President Kennedy and other national leaders, and turned into a friendly assemblage.
Martin Luther King's speech there thrilled 200,000 black and white Americans-"I have a dream..." It was magnificent oratory, but without the anger that many blacks felt. When John Lewis, a young Alabama-born SNCC leader, much arrested, much beaten, tried to introduce a stronger note of outrage at the meeting, he was censored by the leaders of the march, who insisted he omit certain sentences critical of the national government and urging militant action.
Eighteen days after the Washington gathering, almost as if in deliberate contempt for its moderation, a bomb exploded in the basement of a black church in Birmingham and four girls attending a Sunday school class were killed. President Kennedy had praised the "deep fervor and quiet dignity" of the march, but the black militant Malcolm X was probably closer to the mood of the black community. Speaking in Detroit two months after the march on Washington and the Birmingham bombing, Malcolm X said, in his powerful, icy-clear, rhythmic style:
The Negroes were out there in the streets. They were talking about how they were going to march on Washington.... That they were going to march on Washington, march on the Senate, march on the White House, march on the Congress, and tie it up, bring it to a halt, not let the government proceed. They even said they were going out to the airport and lay down on the runway and not let any airplanes land. I'm telling you what they said. That was revolution. That was revolution. That was the black revolution.
It was the grass roots out there in the street. It scared the white man to death, scared the white power structure in Washington, D.C. to death; I was there. When they found out that this black steamroller was going to come down on the capital, they called in ... these national Negro leaders that you respect and told them, "Call it off," Kennedy said. "Look you all are letting this thing go too far." And Old Tom said, "Boss, I can't stop it because I didn't start it." I'm telling you what they said. They said, "I'm not even in it, much less at the head of it." They said, "These Negroes are doing things on their own. They're running ahead of us." And that old shrewd fox, he said, "If you all aren't in it, I'll put you in it. I'll put you at the head of it. I'll endorse it. I'll welcome it. I'll help it. I'll join it."
This is what they did with the march on Washington. They joined it... became part of it, took it over. And as they took it over, it lost its militancy. It ceased to he angry, it ceased to be hot, it ceased to be uncompromising. Why, it even ceased to be a march. It became a picnic, a circus. Nothing but a circus, with clowns and all. . .
No, it was a sellout. It was a takeover. ... They controlled it so tight, they told those Negroes what time to hit town, where to stop, what signs to carry, what song to sing, what speech they could make, and what speech they couldn't make, and then told them to get out of town by sundown....
The accuracy of Malcolm X's caustic description of the march on Washington is corroborated in the description from the other side- from the Establishment, by White House adviser Arthur Schlesinger, in his book A Thousand Days. He tells how Kennedy met with the civil rights leaders and said the march would "create an atmosphere of intimidation" just when Congress was considering civil rights bills. A. Philip Randolph replied: "The Negroes are already in the streets. It is very likely impossible to get them off...." Schlesinger says: "The conference with the President did persuade the civil rights leaders that they should not lay siege to Capitol Hill." Schlesinger describes the Washington march admiringly and then concludes: "So in 1963 Kennedy moved to incorporate the Negro revolution into the democratic coalition. ..."
But it did not work. The blacks could not be easily brought into "the democratic coalition" when bombs kept exploding in churches, when new "civil rights" laws did not change the root condition of black people. In the spring of 1963, the rate of unemployment for whites was 4.8 percent. For nonwhites it was 12.1 percent. According to government estimates, one-fifth of the white population was below the poverty line, and one-half of the black population was below that line. The civil rights bills emphasized voting, but voting was not a fundamental solution to racism or poverty. In Harlem, blacks who had voted for years still lived in rat-infested slums.
In precisely those years when civil rights legislation coming out of Congress reached its peak, 1964 and 1965, there were black outbreaks in every part of the country: in Florida, set off by the killing of a Negro woman and a bomb threat against a Negro high school; in Cleveland, set off by the killing of a white minister who sat in the path of a bulldozer to protest discrimination against blacks in construction work; in New York, set off by the fatal shooting of a fifteen-year-old Negro boy during a fight with an off-duty policeman. There were riots also in Rochester, Jersey City, Chicago, Philadelphia.
In August 1965, just as Lyndon Johnson was signing into law the strong Voting Rights Act, providing for federal registration of black voters to ensure their protection, the black ghetto in Watts, Los Angeles, erupted in the most violent urban outbreak since World War II. It was provoked by the forcible arrest of a young Negro driver, the clubbing of a bystander by police, the seizure of a young black woman falsely accused of spiting on the police. There was rioting in the streets, looting and firebombing of stores. Police and National Guardsmen were called in; they used their guns. Thirty-four people were killed, most of them black, hundreds injured, four thousand arrested. Robert Conot, a West Coast journalist, wrote of the riot (Rivers of Blood, Years of Darkness): "In Los Angeles the Negro was going on record that he would no longer turn the other cheek. That, frustrated and goaded, he would strike back, whether the response of violence was an appropriate one or no."
In the summer of 1966, there were more outbreaks, with rock throwing, looting, and fire bombing by Chicago blacks and wild shootings by the National Guard; three blacks were killed, one a thirteen-year-old boy, another a fourteen-year-old pregnant girl. In Cleveland, the National Guard was summoned to stop a commotion in the black community; four Negroes were shot to death, two by troopers, two by white civilians.
It seemed clear by now that the nonviolence of the southern movement, perhaps tactically necessary in the southern atmosphere, and effective because it could be used to appeal to national opinion against the segregationist South, was not enough to deal with the entrenched problems of poverty in the black ghetto. In 1910, 90 percent of Negroes lived in the South. But by 1965, mechanical cotton pickers harvested 81 percent of Mississippi Delta cotton. Between 1940 and 1970, 4 million blacks left the country for the city. By 1965, 80 percent of blacks lived in cities and 50 percent of the black people lived in the North.
There was a new mood in SNCC and among many militant blacks. Their disillusionment was expressed by a young black writer, Julius Lester:
Now it is over. America has had chance after chance to show that it really meant "that all men are endowed with certain inalienable rights." . .. Now it is over. The days of singing freedom songs and the days of combating bullets and billy clubs with love. . . . Love is fragile and gentle and seeks a like response. They used to sing "I Love Everybody" as they ducked bricks and bottles. Now they sing:
Too much love,
Too much love,
Nothing kills a Nigger like
Too much love.
In 1967, in the black ghettos of the country, came the greatest urban riots of American history. According to the report of the National Advisory Committee on Urban Disorders, they "involved Negroes acting against local symbols of white American society," symbols of authority and property in the black neighborhoods-rather than purely against white persons. The Commission reported eight major uprisings, thirty-three "serious but not major" outbreaks, and 123 "minor" disorders. Eighty-three died of gunfire, mostly in Newark and Detroit. "The overwhelming majority of the persons killed or injured in all the disorders were Negro civilians."
The "typical rioter," according to the Commission, was a young, high school dropout but "nevertheless, somewhat better educated than his non-rioting Negro neighbor" and "usually underemployed or employed in a menial job." He was "proud of his race, extremely hostile to both whites and middle-class Negroes and, although informed about politics, highly distrustful of the political system."
The report blamed "white racism" for the disorders, and identified the ingredients of the "explosive mixture which has been accumulating in our cities since the end of World War II":
Pervasive discrimination and segregation in employment, education, and housing .. . growing concentrations of impoverished Negroes in our major cities, creating a growing crisis of deteriorating facilities and services and unmet human needs. ...
A new mood has sprung up among Negroes, particularly the young, in which self-esteem and enhanced racial pride are replacing apathy and submission to the "system."
But the Commission Report itself was a standard device of the system when facing rebellion: set up an investigating committee, issue a report; the words of the report, however strong, will have a soothing effect.
That didn't completely work either. "Black Power" was the new slogan-an expression of distrust of any "progress" given or conceded by whites, a rejection of paternalism. Few blacks (or whites) knew the statement of the white writer Aldous Huxley: "Liberties are not given, they are taken." But the idea was there, in Black Power. Also, a pride in race, an insistence on black independence, and often, on black separation to achieve this independence. Malcolm X was the most eloquent spokesman for this. After he was assassinated as he spoke on a public platform in February 1965, in a plan whose origins are still obscure, he became the martyr of this movement. Hundreds of thousands read his Autobiography. He was more influential in death than during his lifetime.
Martin Luther King, though still respected, was being replaced now by new heroes: Huey Newton of the Black Panthers, for instance. The Panthers had guns; they said blacks should defend themselves.
Malcolm X in late 1964 had spoken to black students from Mississippi visiting Harlem:
You'll get freedom by letting your enemy know that you'll do anything to get your freedom; then you'll get it. It's the only way you'll get it. When you get that kind of attitude, they'll label you as a "crazy Negro," or they'll call you a "crazy nigger"—they don't say Negro. Or they'll call you an extremist or a subversive, or seditious, or a red or a radical. But when you stay radical long enough and get enough people to be like you, you'll get your freedom.
Congress responded to the riots of 1967 by passing the Civil Rights Act of 1968. Presumably it would make stronger the laws prohibiting violence against blacks; it increased the penalties against those depriving people of their civil rights. However, it said: "The provisions of this section shall not apply to acts or omissions on the part of law enforcement officers, members of the National Guard ... or members of the Armed Forces of the United States, who are engaged in suppressing a riot or civil disturbance...."
Furthermore, it added a section—agreed to by liberal members of Congress in order to get the whole bill passed-that provided up to five years in prison for anyone traveling interstate or using interstate facilities (including mail and telephone) "to organize, promote, encourage, participate in, or carry on a riot." It defined a riot as an action by three or more people involving threats of violence- The first person prosecuted under the Civil Rights Act of 1968 was a young black leader of SNCC, H. Rap Brown, who had made a militant, angry speech in Maryland, just before a racial disturbance there. (Later the Act would be used against antiwar demonstrators in Chicago-the Chicago Eight.)
Martin Luther King himself became more and more concerned about problems untouched by civil rights laws-problems coming out of poverty. In the spring of 1968, he began speaking out, against the advice of some Negro leaders who feared losing friends in Washington, against the war in Vietnam. He connected war and poverty:
... it's inevitable that we've got to bring out the question of the tragic mix-up in priorities. We are spending all of this money for death and destruction, and not nearly enough money for life and constructive development... when the guns of war become a national obsession, social needs inevitably suffer.
King now became a chief target of the FBI, which tapped his private phone conversations, sent him fake letters, threatened him, blackmailed him, and even suggested once in an anonymous letter that he commit suicide. FBI internal memos discussed finding a black leader to replace King. As a Senate report on the FBI said in 1976, the FBI tried "to destroy Dr. Martin Luther King."
King was turning his attention to troublesome questions. He still insisted on nonviolence. Riots were self-defeating, he thought. But they did express a deep feeling that could not be ignored. And so, nonviolence, he said, "must be militant, massive non-violence." He planned a "Poor People's Encampment" in Washington, this time not with the paternal approval of the President. And he went to Memphis, Tennessee, to support a strike of garbage workers in that city. There, standing on a balcony outside his hotel room, he was shot to death by an unseen marksman. The Poor People's Encampment went on, and then it was broken up by police action, just as the World War I veterans' Bonus Army of 1932 was dispersed.
The killing of King brought new urban outbreaks all over the country, in which thirty-nine people were killed, thirty-five of them black. Evidence was piling up that even with all of the civil rights laws now on the books, the courts would not protect blacks against violence and injustice:
In the 1967 riots in Detroit, three black teen-agers were killed in the Algiers Motel. Three Detroit policemen and a black private guard were tried for this triple murder. The defense conceded, a UPI dispatch said, that the four men had shot two of the blacks. A jury exonerated them.
In Jackson, Mississippi, in the spring of 1970, on the campus of Jackson State College, a Negro college, police laid down a 28-second barrage of gunfire, using shotguns, rifles, and a submachine gun. Four hundred bullets or pieces of buckshot struck the girls' dormitory and two black students were killed. A local grand jury found the attack "justified" and U.S. District Court Judge Harold Cox (a Kennedy appointee) declared that students who engage in civil disorders "must expect to he injured or killed."
In Boston in April 1970, a policeman shot and killed an unarmed black man, a patient in a ward in the Boston City Hospital, firing five shots after the black man snapped a towel at him. The chief judge of the municipal court of Boston exonerated the policeman.
In Augusta, Georgia, in May 1970, six Negroes were shot to death during looting and disorder in the city. The New York Times reported:
A confidential police report indicates that at least five of the victims were killed by the police...
An eyewitness to one of the deaths said he had watched a Negro policeman and his white partner fire nine shots into the back of a man suspected of looting. They did not fire warning shots or ask him to stop running, said Charles A. Reid, a 38-year-old businessman...
In April 1970, a federal jury in Boston found a policeman had used "excessive force" against two black soldiers from Fort Devens, and one of them required twelve stitches in his scalp; the judge awarded the servicemen $3 in damages.
These were "normal" cases, endlessly repeated in the history of the country, coming randomly but persistently out of a racism deep in the institutions, the mind of the country. But there was something else-a planned pattern of violence against militant black organizers, carried on by the police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. On December 4, 1969, a little before five in the morning, a squad of Chicago police, armed with a submachine gun and shotguns, raided an apartment where Black Panthers lived. They fired at least eighty-two and perhaps two hundred rounds into the apartment, killing twenty-one-year-old Black Panther leader Fred Hampton as he lay in his bed, and another Black Panther, Mark Clark. Years later, it was discovered in a court proceeding that the FBI had an informer among the Panthers, and that they had given the police a floor plan of the apartment, including a sketch of where Fred Hampton slept.
Was the government turning to murder and terror because the concessions-the legislation, the speeches, the intonation of the civil rights hymn "We Shall Overcome" by President Lyndon Johnson-were not working? It was discovered later that the government in all the years of the civil rights movement, while making concessions through Congress, was acting through the FBI to harass and break up black militant groups. Between 1956 and 1971 the FBI concluded a massive Counterintelligence Program (known as COINTELPRO) that took 295 actions against black groups. Black militancy seemed stubbornly resistant to destruction. A secret FBI report to President Nixon in 1970 said "a recent poll indicates that approximately 25% of the black population has a great respect for the Black Panther Party, including 43% of blacks under 21 years of age." Was there fear that blacks would turn their attention from the controllable field of voting to the more dangerous arena of wealth and poverty-of class conflict? In 1966, seventy poor black people in Greenville, Mississippi, occupied an unused air force barracks, until they were evicted by the military. A local woman, Mrs. Unita Blackwell, said:
I feel that the federal government have proven that it don't care about poor people. Everything that we have asked for through these years had been handed down on paper. It's never been a reality. We the poor people of Mississippi is tired. We're tired of it so we're going to build for ourselves, because we don't have a government that represents us.
Out of the 1967 riots in Detroit came an organization devoted to organizing black workers for revolutionary change. This was the League of Revolutionary Black Workers, which lasted until 1971 and influenced thousands of black workers in Detroit during its period of activity.
The new emphasis was more dangerous than civil rights, because it created the possibility of blacks and whites uniting on the issue of class exploitation. Back in November 1963, A. Philip Randolph had spoken to an AFL-CIO convention about the civil rights movement, and foreseen its direction: "The Negro's protest today is but the first rumbling of the 'under-class.' As the Negro has taken to the streets, so will the unemployed of all races take to the streets."
Attempts began to do with blacks what had been done historically with whites-to lure a small number into the system with economic enticements. There was talk of "black capitalism." Leaders of the NAACP and CORF, were invited to the White House. James Farmer of CORF, a former Freedom Rider and militant, was given a job in President Nixon's administration. Floyd McKissick of CORE received a $14 million government loan to build a housing development in North Carolina. Lyndon Johnson had given jobs to some blacks through the Office of Economic Opportunity; Nixon set up an Office of Minority Business Enterprise.
Chase Manhattan Bank and the Rockefeller family (controllers of Chase) took a special interest in developing "black capitalism." The Rockefellers had always been financial patrons of the Urban League, and a strong influence in black education through their support of Negro colleges in the South. David Rockefeller tried to persuade his fellow capitalists that while helping black businessmen with money might not be fruitful in the short run, it was necessary "to shape an environment in which the business can continue earning a profit four or five or ten years from now." With all of this, black business remained infinitesimally small. The largest black corporation (Motown Industries) had sales in 1974 of $45 million, while Exxon Corporation had sales of $42 billion. The total receipts of black-owned firms accounted for 0.3 percent of all business income.
There was a small amount of change and a lot of publicity. There were more black faces in the newspapers and on television, creating an impression of change-and siphoning off into the mainstream a small but significant number of black leaders.
Some new black voices spoke against this. Robert Allen (Black Awakening in Capitalist America) wrote:
If the community as a whole is to benefit, then the community as a whole must be organized to manage collectively its internal economy and its business relations with white America. Black business firms must be treated and operated as social property, belonging to the general black community, not as the private property of individual or limited groups of individuals. This necessitates the dismantling of capitalist property relations in the black community and their replacement with a planned communal economy.
A black woman, Patricia Robinson, in a pamphlet distributed in Boston in 1970 (Poor Black Woman), tied male supremacy to capitalism and said the black woman "allies herself with the have- nots in the wider world and their revolutionary struggles." She said the poor black woman did not in the past "question the social and economic system" but now she must, and in fact, "she has begun to question aggressive male domination and the class society which enforces it, capitalism."
Another black woman, Margaret Wright, said she was not fighting for equality with men if it meant equality in the world of killing, the world of competition. "I don't want to compete on no damned exploitative level. I don't want to exploit nobody.... I want the right to be black and me...."
The system was working hard, by the late sixties and early seventies, to contain the frightening explosiveness of the black upsurge. Blacks were voting in large numbers in the South, and in the 1968 Democratic-Convention three blacks were admitted into the Mississippi delegation. By 1977, more than two thousand blacks held office in eleven southern states (in 1965 the number was seventy-two). There were two Congressmen, eleven state senators, ninety-five state representatives, 267 county commissioners, seventy-six mayors, 824 city council members, eighteen sheriffs or chiefs of police, 508 school board members. It was a dramatic advance. But blacks, with 20 percent of the South's population, still held less than 3 percent of the elective offices. A New York Times reporter, analyzing the new situation in 1977, pointed out that even where blacks held important city offices: "Whites almost always retain economic power." After Maynard Jackson, a black, became mayor of Atlanta, "the white business establishment continued to exert its influence."
Those blacks in the South who could afford to go to downtown restaurants and hotels were no longer barred because of their race. More blacks could go to colleges and universities, to law schools and medical schools. Northern cities were busing children back and forth in an attempt to create racially mixed schools, despite the racial segregation in housing. None of this, however, was halting what Frances Piven and Richard Cloward (Poor People's Movements) called "the destruction of the black lower class"—the unemployment, the deterioration of the ghetto, the rising crime, drug addiction, violence.
In the summer of 1977, the Department of Labor reported that the rate of unemployment among black youths was 34.8 percent. A small new black middle class of blacks had been created, and it raised the overall statistics for black income-but there was a great disparity between the newly risen middle-class black and the poor left behind. Despite the new opportunities for a small number of blacks, the median black family income of 1977 was only about 60 percent that of whites; blacks were twice as likely to the of diabetes; seven times as likely to he victims of homicidal violence rising out of the poverty and despair of the ghetto.
A New York Times report in early 1978 said: ". .. the places that experienced urban riots in the 1960's have, with a few exceptions, changed little, and the conditions of poverty have spread in most cities."
Statistics did not tell the whole story. Racism, always a national fact, not just a southern one, emerged in northern cities, as the federal government made concessions to poor blacks in a way that pitted them against poor whites for resources made scarce by the system. Blacks, freed from slavery to take their place under capitalism, had long been forced into conflict with whites for scarce jobs. Now, with desegregation in housing, blacks tried to move into neighborhoods where whites, themselves poor, crowded, troubled, could find in them a target for their anger. In the Boston Globe, November 1977:
A Hispanic family of six fled their apartment in the Savin Hill section of Dorchester yesterday after a week of repeated stonings and window-smashings by a group of white youths, in what appears to have been racially motivated attacks, police said.
In Boston, the busing of black children to white schools, and whites to black schools, set off a wave of white neighborhood violence. The use of busing to integrate schools—sponsored by the government and the courts in response to the black movement—was an ingenious concession to protest. It had the effect of pushing poor whites and poor blacks into competition for the miserable inadequate schools which the system provided for all the poor.
Was the black population—hemmed into the ghetto, divided by the growth of a middle class, decimated by poverty, attacked by the government, driven into conflict with whites—under control? Surely, in the mid-seventies, there was no great black movement under way. Yet, a new black consciousness had been born and was still alive. Also, whites and blacks were crossing racial lines in the South to unite as a class against employers. In 1971, two thousand woodworkers in Mississippi, black and white, joined together to protest a new method of measuring wood that led to lower wages. In the textile mills of J. P. Stevens, where 44,000 workers were employed in eighty- five plants, mostly in the South, blacks and whites were working together in union activity. In Tifton, Georgia, and Milledgeville, Georgia, in 1977, blacks and whites served together on the union committees of their plants.
Would a new black movement go beyond the limits of the civil rights actions of the sixties, beyond the spontaneous urban riots of the seventies, beyond separatism to a coalition of white and black in a historic new alliance? There was no way of knowing this in 1978. In 1978, 6 million black people were unemployed. As Langston Hughes said, what happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up, or does it explode? If it did explode, as it had in the past, it would come with a certain inevitability- out of the conditions of black life in America-and yet, because no one knew when, it would come as a surprise.
The links go to Discogs pages that show the exact versions I own
CDs
Air
 - 
Moon Safari
The Virgin Suicides
Animal Collective
 - 
Merriweather Post Pavilion
Fiona Apple
 - 
When the Pawn...
Arcade Fire
 - 
Funeral
Arctic Monkeys
 - 
AM
Tranquility Base Hotel + Casino
The Car
Arrested Development
 - 
3 Years, 5 Months and 2 Days in the Life of...
Ash
 - 
1977
The Auteurs
 - 
New Wave
BADBADNOTGOOD
 - 
Talk Memory
Basement Jaxx
 - 
Remedy
Count Basie
 - 
Atomic Basie
 [The Atomic Mr Basie and One More Time]
The Beach Boys
 - 
Pet Sounds
The Beatles
 - 
Rubber Soul
 
[2009 remaster]
Revolver
 
[1987 CD]
Revolver
 
[2022 Remix]
Magical Mystery Tour
The White Album/Esher Demos
 
[2018 remix]
Abbey Road (50th anniversary edition)
 
[2019 remix]
Various Artists - 
Beatles Day
Various Artists - 
Rubber Soul Rebound
Beck
 - 
Odelay
Bjork
 - 
Debut
Post
Vespertine
Medúlla
The Black Keys
 - 
El Camino
Turn Blue
Bloc Party
 - 
Silent Alarm
Blur
 - 
Leisure
Modern Life is Rubbish
Parklife
The Great Escape
Blur
Think Tank
The Ballad of Darren
The Best Of
David Bowie
 - 
Hunky Dory
Low
"Heroes"
Jeff Buckley
 - 
Grace
Jake Bugg
 - 
Jake Bugg
Shangri La
Mariah Carey
 - 
Butterfly
The Carpenters
 - 
Only Yesterday: Richard and Karen Carpenter's Greatest Hits
Tracy Chapman
 - 
Tracy Chapman
The Charlatans
 - 
Tellin' Stories
The Chemical Brothers
 - 
Exit Planet Dust
Dig Your Own Hole
Margo Cilker
 - 
Selected Works
The Clash
 - 
The Clash
Coldplay
 - 
A Rush of Blood to the Head
Prospekt's March
 EP
Mylo Xyloto
Ghost Stories
A Head Full of Dreams
Everyday Life
Live 2012
The Coral
 - 
The Coral
Move Through the Dawn
Cornershop
 - 
When I Was Born For the 7th Time
The Cure
 - 
Three Imaginary Boys
Seventeen Seconds
Faith
Pornography
The Top
The Head on the Door
Kiss Me, Kiss Me, Kiss Me
Disintegration
Wish
Bloodflowers
Staring at the Sea: Singles 1978-86
Terence Trent D'Arby
 - 
The Hardline According to Terence Trent D'Arby
Daughters
 - 
You Won't Get What You Want
Miles Davis
 - 
Birth of the Cool
Kind of Blue
Death in Vegas
 - 
The Contino Sessions
Depeche Mode
 - 
Violator
Memento Mori
Derek & the Dominos
 - 
Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs
Dizzee Rascal
 - 
Boy in da Corner
DJ Shadow
 - 
Endtroducing.....
Django Django
 - 
Django Django
Doves
 - 
Lost Souls
The Last Broadcast
Dr Dre
 - 
2001
Nick Drake
 - 
Five Leaves Left
Pink Moon
Bob Dylan
 - 
Blood on the Tracks
Echo & The Bunnymen
 - 
Ocean Rain
Echobelly
 - 
On
Editors
 - 
The Back Room
Eels
 - 
Beautiful Freak
Elastica
 - 
Elastica
Elbow
 - 
Asleep in the Back
Cast of Thousands
Leaders of the Free World
Build a Rocket, Boys!
Dead in the Boot
The Take Off and Landing of Everything
Little Fictions
Giants of All Sizes
Flying Dream 1
Electric Light Orchestra
 - 
Out of the Blue
Missy Elliott
 - 
Under Construction
Eminem
 - 
The Slim Shady LP
The Marshall Mathers LP
Everything But the Girl
 - 
Walking Wounded
Faith No More
 - 
The Real Thing
Fatboy Slim
 - 
You've Come a Long Way, Baby
Lupe Fiasco
 - 
Lupe Fiasco's Food & Liquor
The Flaming Lips
 - 
The Soft Bulletin
Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots
Fleetwood Mac
 - 
Rumours
Fugees
 - 
The Score
Guy Garvey
 - 
Courting the Squall
Marvin Gaye
 - 
What's Going On
Ghostface Killah
 - 
Fishscale
Bebel Gilberto
 - 
Tanto Tempo
Gnarls Barkley
 - 
St. Elsewhere
Goldfrapp
 - 
Felt Mountain
Grant Lee Buffalo
 - 
Fuzzy
Green Day
 - 
Dookie
Happy Mondays
 - 
Pills 'n' Thrills and Bellyaches
Ed Harcourt
 - 
Here Be Monsters
George Harrison
 - 
All Things Must Pass
P J Harvey
 - 
To Bring You My Love
Stories from the City, Stories from the Sea
Richard Hawley
 - 
Coles Corner
Lauryn Hill
 - 
The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill
Hole
 - 
Live Through This
David Holmes
 - 
Let's Get Killed
Interpol
 - 
Turn On the Bright Lights
Antics
Our Love to Admire
Irrelevant Cabbage
 - 
The Counterfeit News Network
The Jam
 - 
Sound Affects
Beat Surrender
Japan
 - 
Adolescent Sex
 
[version]
Obscure Alternatives
Quiet Life
Gentlemen Take Polaroids
Assemblage
James
 - 
Laid
Jay-Z
 - 
The Blueprint
JERK
 - 
JERK 2013-2014
Norah Jones
 - 
Come Away With Me
Jamiroquai
 - 
Emergency on Planet Earth
Joy Division
 - 
Unknown Pleasures
Closer
Permanent
Kaiser Chiefs
 - 
Employment
Miles Kane
 - 
Don't Forget Who You Are
Kasabian
 - 
Kasabian
The Killers
 - 
Hot Fuss
Sam's Town
Sawdust
Day & Age
Battle Born
Wonderful Wonderful
Carole King
 - 
Tapestry
Kings of Leon
 - 
Because of the Times
Mechanical Bull
Lenny Kravitz
 - 
Let Love Rule
Kula Shaker
 - 
K
Kendrick Lamar
 - 
good kid, m.a.a.d. city
To Pimp a Butterfly
DAMN. 
[collector's edition]
Mr Morale & The Big Steppers
Lambchop
 - 
Nixon
k.d. lang
 - 
Ingénue
The La's
 - 
The La's
LCD Soundsystem
 - 
Sound of Silver
Led Zeppelin
 - 
Led Zeppelin IV
Leftfield
 - 
Leftism
Les Rythmes Digitales
 - 
Darkdancer
 
[promo copy]
The Libertines
 - 
Up the Bracket
Love
 - 
Forever Changes
Madness
 - 
Total Madness
Madonna
 - 
Ray of Light
Manic Street Preachers
 - 
Generation Terrorists
Gold Against the Soul
The Holy Bible
Know Your Enemy
Journal for Plague Lovers
Mansun
 - 
Attack of the Grey Lantern
Massive Attack
 - 
Blue Lines
Protection
Mezzanine
Paul McCartney
 - 
McCartney III
Mercury Rev
 - 
Deserters' Songs
Metallica
 - 
Master of Puppets
...And Justice for All
St. Anger
Midlake
 - 
The Courage of Others
Moby
 - 
Play
Alanis Morissette
 - 
Jagged Little Pill
Van Morrison
 - 
Astral Weeks
My Bloody Valentine
 - 
Isn't Anything
Loveless
New Order
 - 
Technique
New York Dolls
 - 
New York Dolls
Joanna Newsom
 - 
Ys
Nirvana
 - 
Nevermind
In Utero
MTV Unplugged in New York
Oasis
 - 
The Masterplan
Sinéad O'Connor
 - 
I Do Not Want What I Haven't Got
Beth Orton
 - 
Trailer Park
Central Reservation
OutKast
 - 
Speakerboxxx/The Love Below
Pantera
 - 
Vulgar Display of Power
Pavement
 - 
Slanted and Enchanted
Crooked Rain, Crooked Rain
Pet Shop Boys
 - 
Very
Pink Floyd
 - 
Dark Side of the Moon
Pixies
 - 
Surfer Rosa/Come On Pilgrim
Doolittle
The Pogues
 - 
The Best of the Pogues
The Police
 - 
Synchronicity
Portishead
 - 
Dummy
Portishead
Primal Scream
 - 
Screamadelica
Vanishing Point
The Prodigy
 - 
The Fat of the Land
Public Service Broadcasting
 - 
Inform-Educate-Entertain
The Race for Space
Pulp
 - 
His 'n' Hers
Prince
 - 
1999
Finley Quaye
 - 
Maverick a Strike
Queens of the Stone Age
 - 
Queens of the Stone Age
Radiohead
 - 
Kid A
The King of Limbs
Rage Against the Machine
 - 
Rage Against the Machine
Razorlight
 - 
Up All Night
Red Hot Chilli Peppers
 - 
Californication
Django Reinhardt & Stephane Grappelli
 - 
The Ultimate Collection
R.E.M.
 - 
Murmur
Document
Green
Out of Time
Automatic for the People
Rodrigo y Gabriela
 - 
Mettavolution
The Rolling Stones
 - 
The Rolling Stones
Exile on Main St.
Roxy Music
 - 
Roxy Music
Röyksopp
 - 
Melody A.M.
 
Basement Jaxx
 - 
Rooty
 
[version]
Röyksopp
 - 
Melody A.M.
Jack Savoretti
 - 
Written in Scars
Shovel Dance Collective
 - 
The Water is the Shovel of the Shore
Simple Minds
 - 
New Gold Dream (81-82-83-84)
Frank Sinatra
 - 
Songs for Swingin' Lovers!
Talvin Singh
 - 
OK
Siouxsie and the Banshees
 - 
Juju
The Smashing Pumpkins
 - 
Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness
The Smile
 - 
Wall of Eyes
Patti Smith
 - 
Horses
The Smiths
 - 
The Queen is Dead
Strangeways, Here We Come
Snow Patrol
 - 
Up to Now
Sonic Youth
 - 
EVOL
Sister
Daydream Nation
Dirty
A Thousand Leaves
Murray Street
Stereophonics
 - 
You Gotta Go There to Come Back
Pull the Pin
Live from Dakota
The Stone Roses
 - 
The Stone Roses
Second Coming
The Streets
 - 
A Grand Don't Come for Free
The Strokes
 - 
Is This It
Room On Fire
The Strypes
 - 
Snapshot
Suede
 - 
Suede
Dog Man Star
 
[2015 remaster]
Coming Up
Sci-Fi Lullabies
Head Music
A New Morning
Bloodsports
Night Thoughts
The Blue Hour
Autofiction
The Sugarcubes
 - 
Life's Too Good
Super Furry Animals
 - 
Fuzzy Logic
Supergrass
 - 
I Should Coco
I Should Coco
In It for the Money
Supergrass
David Sylvian
 - 
Secrets of the Beehive
 
[2003 remaster]
System of a Down
 - 
System of a Down
Teenage Fanclub
 - 
Bandwagonesque
This Friendship Is Sailing
 - 
Shape Shifters
This Heat
 - 
Deceit
TLC
 - 
CrazySexyCool
Amon Tobin
 - 
Supermodified
Out from Out Where
Travis
 - 
Good Feeling
Tricky
 - 
Maxinquaye
Two Door Cinema Club
 - 
Tourist History
TV on the Radio
 - 
Dear Science
U2
 - 
October
The Unforgettable Fire
Achtung Baby
Zooropa
Pop
All That You Can't Leave Behind
Underworld
 - 
Dubnobasswithmyheadman
Second Toughest in the Infants
Beaucoup Fish
The Velvet Underground
 - 
The Velvet Underground & Nico
White Light/White Heat
The Verve
 - 
A Storm in Heaven
A Northern Soul
Urban Hymns
Weezer
 - 
Weezer (Blue)
Paul Weller
 - 
Wild Wood
Kanye West
 - 
The College Dropout
Late Registration
808s & Heartbreak
My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy
The White Stripes
 - 
White Blood Cells
Elephant
Wilco
 - 
Crosseyed Strangers: An Alternate Yankee Hotel Foxtrot
Wild Beasts
 - 
Two Dancers
Robbie Williams
 - 
Life Thru a Lens
Stevie Wonder
 - 
Talking Book
The xx
 - 
xx
Yeah Yeah Yeahs
 - 
Fever to Tell
It's Blitz!
Thom Yorke
 - 
Tomorrow's Modern Boxes
Suspiria
ANIMA
Neil Young
 - 
Harvest
The 1975
 - 
A Brief Inquiry into Online Relationships
Notes on a Conditional Form
2Pac
 - 
Me Against the World
[Classical Performers]
Julian Bream
 - 
Julian Bream plays Villa-Lobos
Eduardo Fernandez
 - 
The World of the Spanish Guitar
Frances Griffin and Leo Turner
 - 
Bajo la Palmera
Elizabeth Kenny
 - 
Ars Longa: Old and new music for theorbo
Gary Ryan
 - 
Patterns in Time
Andrés Segovia
 - 
The Spanish Guitar Magic of Segovia
Leo Turner
 - 
Espernaca
John Williams
 - 
Joaquin Rodrigo and Heitor Villa-Lobos Guitar Concertos
 [2010 remaster]
The Seville Concert
Spanish Guitar Music
Xuefei Yang
 - 
Sojourn: The Very Best of Xuefei Yang
The Russian Guitar 1800-1850: The Moscow School
Trinity Guildhall Guitar Pieces, Exercises and Duets
[Classical Composers]
Ludwig van Beethoven/Barry Cooper
 - 
Symphony No. 10/The Story of Beethoven's Tenth Symphony
 
[Morris, London Symphony Orchestra]
Johannes Brahms
 - 
Symphony No. 1
 
[Horenstein, South West German Radio Orchestra]
Symphony No. 2
 
[Belohlavek, BBC Symphony Orchestra]
Symphonies Nos. 2 & 3
 
[Karajan, Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, 1964 recording]
Glenn Branca
 - 
The Third Ascension
Antonín Dvorák
 - 
Symphony No. 9 "From the New World"
 
[Chailly, Concertgebouw Orchestra]
Gustav Mahler
 - 
Symphony No. 5
 
[Sinopoli, Philharmonia Orchestra]
Symphony No. 8
 
[Tennstedt, London Philharmonic Orchestra]
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
 - 
Requiem
 with "Ave Verum Corpus" and "Exsultate Jubilate"
Piano Concertos
Manuel de Falla / Maurice Ravel
 - 
Piano Concertos
 [Ravel: G major concerto, D major concerto "for the left hand" / de Falla: Nights in the Gardens of Spain]
Joaquin Rodrigo
 - 
Complete Orchestral Works 3
 [Concierto en modo galante and Concierto como un divertimento for 'cello, Concierto de estío for violin]
Jean Sibelius
 - 
Tone Poems: Finlandia / Der Schwan von Tuonela / Valse Triste / Tapiola
 
[Karajan, Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra]
Dmitri Shostakovich
 - 
Symphony No. 5
 
[Haitink, Concertgebouw Orchestra]
Symphony No. 8
 / 
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
 - 
Symphony No. 33
 
[Mravinsky, Leningrad Philharmonic Orchestra]
Symphony No. 10
 
[Mravinsky, Leningrad State Philharmonic Orchestra]
Igor Stravinsky
 - 
The Rite of Spring/Concerto for Piano and Wind Instruments
 
[Skrowaczewski, Minnesota Orchestra]
Heitor Villa-Lobos
 - 
Live!
 [Piano Concerto No. 5, Bachianas Brasilieras 3, solo piano music]
Antonio Vivaldi
 - 
Concertos
Lutoslawski/Penderecki/Cage/Mayuzumi
 - 
String Quartets
 
[LaSalle Quartet]
[Compilations]
BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge 2014
The Best Air Guitar Album in the World... Ever!
Jakey vs Uncle Lawrence 1: Off the Wall
Jakey vs Uncle Lawrence 2: Sensible Stuff
Jakey vs Uncle Lawrence 3: Un Petit Peu de Français
Mojo presents Johnny Cash... and Friends
Mojo presents 20 from 20
Q Essential Glastonbury
Smart
Spirit of Polynesia
Uncut - Blackwaterside: Sounds of the New Weird Albion
Uncut - Modern Classics
Uncut - Main Sounds
Uncut - Killer Cuts
Uncut - From Us to You
Uncut - Now Playing
Uncut - Big Time Sounds
Uncut - The Sound of 2022
Uncut - Made to Love Magic
100 Hits: Punk & New Wave
Vinyl
Adam and the Ants
 - 
Kings of the Wild Frontier
The Beatles
 - 
Please Please Me
With the Beatles
A Hard Day's Night
Beatles for Sale
Help!
Rubber Soul
Revolver
Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band
The Beatles
Yellow Submarine
Abbey Road
Let it Be
Hey Jude
Johannes Brahms
 - 
Symphony No. 4
 
[Loughran, Hallé]
Coldplay
 - 
Parachutes
Europe
 - 
Out of This World
Green Day
 - 
American Idiot
Japan
 - 
Quiet Life
Joy Division
 - 
Unknown Pleasures
The Police
 - 
Ghost in the Machine
The Rolling Stones
 - 
Let It Bleed
Stereophonics
 - 
Just Enough Education to Perform
The Stone Roses
 - 
Stone Roses
U2
 - 
War
Various artists
 - 
Anthems
Various artists
 - 
The Jazz Album
[7" Singles]
Pink Floyd
 - "Another Brick in the Wall Part 2"
Rush
 - "Roll the Bones"
[Empty Vinyl Sleeves]
Depeche Mode
 - 
Violator
Japan
 - "Ghosts" [12" Single]
Sister Rosetta Tharpe - Strange Things Happening Every Day
Chuck Berry - Johnny B. Goode
Little Richard - Tutti Frutti
Elvis Presley - Blue Suede Shoes
Sister Rosetta Tharpe - Rock Daniel
Johnny Cash - Ring of Fire
The Rolling Stones - I Just Want To Make Love To You (Mono Version)
Fats Domino - Ain't That A Shame
Sister Rosetta Tharpe - That's All
Chubby Checker - The Twist
The Kingsmen - Louie Louie
Elvis Presley - Jailhouse Rock
The Rolling Stones - Jumpin' Jack Flash (Mono)
Roy Orbison - Oh, Pretty Woman
The Beatles - Twist And Shout (Remastered 2009)
Little Richard - Long Tall Sally
Bill Haley & His Comets - (We're Gonna) Rock Around The Clock
Sister Rosetta Tharpe - Down by the Riverside
Sister Rosetta Tharpe - Rock Me (feat. Lucky Millinder And His Orchestra)
The Who - My Generation (Stereo Version)
Neil Sedaka - Calendar Girl
Little Richard - Good Golly Miss Molly
Jerry Lee Lewis - Great Balls Of Fire
Sister Rosetta Tharpe - Shout, Sister, Shout! (feat. Lucky Millinder And His Orchestra)
Buddy Holly - That'll Be The Day
Johnny Cash - I Walk the Line
The Beatles - All My Loving (Remastered 2009)
Chuck Berry - Run Rudolph Run (Single Version)
Jerry Lee Lewis - Whole Lot of Shakin' Going On
The Rolling Stones - I'm A King Bee
Johnny Cash - A Boy Named Sue (Live at San Quentin State Prison, San Quentin, CA - February 1969)
Chuck Berry - You Never Can Tell
Johnny Cash - Folsom Prison Blues (Live at Folsom State Prison, Folsom, CA - January 1968)
The Beach Boys - Surfin' U.S.A. (Remastered)
Elvis Presley - Hound Dog
Elvis Presley - Heartbreak Hotel
Carl Perkins - Blue Suede Shoes
Carl Perkins - Matchbox
Chuck Berry - Roll Over Beethoven
Fats Domino - Blueberry Hill
Chubby Checker - Let's Twist Again
Chuck Berry - No Particular Place To Go
The Beatles - I Saw Her Standing There (Remastered 2009)
Neil Sedaka - Breaking Up Is Hard to Do
Carl Perkins - Boppin' The Blues
Chuck Berry - Maybellene (Single Version)
Jerry Lee Lewis - Wild One
John Mayall & The Bluesbreakers - All Your Love (Mono) (feat. Eric Clapton)
The Beatles - A Hard Day's Night (Remastered 2009)
Chuck Berry - Sweet Little Sixteen
Let's go
Let's go
Let's go
Let's go
I wanna scream at the top of my lungs
I wanna do what has never been done
I wanna light the spark
The beats in a million hearts
I wanna dance with my boys and my girls
Dance like we're gonna take over the world
All in the name of love
I wanna get me some
One night it's all it takes
We've become wrong to make it right
One night to save the day
We'll show them all
Let's go, go, go
Let's go, go, go
Let's go (go)
Wе'll show them all
Let's go
We'll show thеm all
Let's go, go, goMothers and fathers along for the ride
Together we're walking the line with the pride
We're talking to everyone
Come as you are, just come
I wanna dance with my boys and my girls
Dance like we're gonna take over the world
All in the name of love
I wanna get me some
One night is all it takes
We've become wrong to make it right
One night to save the day
We'll show them all
Let's go, go, go
Let's go, go, go
Let's go (go)
We'll show them all
Let's go
We'll show them all
Let's go, go, go
We'll show them all
Let's go
BTS - Butter
Maroon 5 - Memories
Imagine Dragons - Follow You
One Direction - Best Song Ever
Queen - Bohemian Rhapsody
The Beatles - Let It Be (Remastered 2009)
Måneskin - Beggin'
Arctic Monkeys - Why'd You Only Call Me When You're High?
Linkin Park - In the End
BLACKPINK - Ice Cream (with Selena Gomez)
Twenty One Pilots - Shy Away
$uicideboy$ - ...And to Those I Love, Thanks for Sticking Around
The Neighbourhood - Sweater Weather
Red Hot Chili Peppеrs - Scar Tissue
AC/DC - Thunderstruck
Black Eyed Pеas - I Gotta Feeling
OneRepublic - Someday
Metallica - Enter Sandman
Little Mix - Sweet Melody
Zé Felipe & Os Barões Da Pisadinha - Senta Danada
The Chainsmokers, ILLENIUM & Lennon Stella - Takeaway
Glass Animals - Heat Waves
TWICE - The Feels
Nirvana - Come As You Are
Migos - Straightenin
Banda MS de Sergio Lizárraga - La Casita
Reik & Maluma - Perfecta
Grupo Firme - Ya Supérame (En Vivo)
Green Day - Boulevard of Broken Dreams
5 Seconds of Summer - Youngblood
ABBA - Chiquitita
The Rolling Stones - Start Me Up (Remastered 2009)
Panic! At The Disco - High Hopes
Pink Floyd - Wish You Were Here (2011 Remaster)
Bob Marley & The Wailers - Is This Love
Guns N' Roses - Sweet Child O' Mine
Jorge & Mateus - Namorando Com Saudade
Internet Money - His & Hers (feat. don Toliver, Lil Uzi Vert & Gunna)
Tame Impala - Borderline
Wisin & Yandel, Chris Brown & T-Pain - Algo Me Gusta De Ti
Daft Punk - One More Time
Jonas Brothers - Sucker
Aventura & Bad Bunny - Volví
U2 - Beautiful Day
Bring Me The Horizon - DiE4u
Bon Jovi - It's My Life
Led Zeppelin - Whole Lotta Love (1990 Remaster)
Calibre 50 - A La Antigüita
Henrique & Juliano - Arranhão (Ao Vivo)
Stray Kids - Thunderous
January
8/1:
 
Hazey Haze - 
Is Mise
 🇮🇪🐚
8/1:
 
Laurie Shaw - 
Easy Singles
 🇮🇪🐚
10/1:
 
David Keenan - 
A Beginner's Guide To Bravery
 🇮🇪✔️
10/1:
 
Dermot Kennedy - 
Power Over Me - EP
 🇮🇪✔️
10/1:
 
Adam Fleming - 
Calling The Ghost To Life
 🇮🇪🐚
17/1:
 
Aoife Nessa Frances - 
Land of No Junction
 🇮🇪✔️
17/1:
 
Happy Out - 
Is, Was, Wasn't
 🇮🇪✔️
17/1:
 
Solkatt - 
Nocturne
 🇮🇪✔️
18/1:
 
Hugh Doolan - 
im perfect
 🇮🇪🐚
19/1:
 
Embrace The Crisis - 
Conclusion
 🇮🇪
23/1:
 
BOKOTONO - 
BOKOTONO
 🇮🇪✔️
24/1:
 
Callum Orr - 
Cathy & Places
 🇮🇪✔️
24/1:
 
Aoife Scott - 
Homebird
 🇮🇪🐚
24/1:
 
inalbis - 
The River
 🇮🇪✔️
24/1:
 
Blackbird & Crow - 
Ailm
 🇮🇪🐚
25/1:
 
Varo - 
Varo
 🇮🇪🐚
26/1:
 
The Bonny Men - 
The Broken Pledge
 🇮🇪🐚
30/1:
 
Craic Boi Mental - 
Craickaveli 
 🇮🇪🐚
31/1:
 
D. Cullen - 
The Rising Tide EP
 🇮🇪🐚
31/1:
 
Sequence - 
Misunderstood
 🇮🇪🐚
31/1:
 
Laurie Shaw - 
Non Broadcast Pilot
 🇮🇪🐚
February
3/2:
 
Matt McGinn - 
Lessons of War
 (NI)🐚
4/2:
 
Bedlam Suitcase - 
The Fourth Wall
 🇮🇪🐚
5/2:
 
arborist - 
A Northern View
 (NI)🐚
7/2:
 
John Blek - 
The Embers
 🇮🇪🐚
7/2:
 
The Lost Brothers - 
After The Fire After The Rain
 🇮🇪🐚
7/2:
 
Alpha Chrome Yayo - 
Choke
 (NI)✔️
7/2:
 
Luan Parle - 
Never Say Goodbye
 🇮🇪🐚
7/2:
 
Frankie Swain - 
September
 (NI)🐚
10/2:
 
R. Kitt - 
Ripples From The Edge
 🇮🇪🐚
14/2:
 
KUDOS - 
Birthdays & Valentine’s
 🇮🇪🐚
14/2:
 
EDEN - 
no future
 🇮🇪✔️
14/2:
 
Brand New Friend - 
A Cure For Living
 (NI)✔️
14/2:
 
Nel Unlit - 
Wake for the Dreaming
 (NI)🐚
14/2:
 
Tóshin - 
Get Your Life
 🇮🇪🐚
14/2:
 
Aoife Blake - 
The Green Hills
 🇮🇪🐚
14/2:
 
Me Auld Flower - 
The Vaults of Consciousness
🐚
20/2:
 
Losta Plot - 
Half Finished Songs I'm Never Gonny Release
 (NI)🐚
21/2:
 
Gaptoof - 
Looks Like Rain
 🇮🇪🐚
21/2:
 
EMBRZ - 
Spirit Reset
 🇮🇪🐚
21/2:
 
Orla Gartland - 
Freckle Season
 🇮🇪✔️
21/2:
 
Fox Jaw – 
Breathe In The Strange
 🇮🇪🐚
21/2:
 
Marlene Enright - 
Petrichor
 🇮🇪✔️
21/2:
 
Tomorrows - 
The Night Chorus 2
 🇮🇪🐚
21/2:
 
Cooks but We're Chefs - 
Sports Day
 🇮🇪🐚
22/2:
 
Jiggy - 
Hypernova
 🇮🇪🐚
24/2:
 
C O M T E - 
Of Clear Light
 🇮🇪✔️
27/2:
 Leah Sohotra - 
Breaded Crickets
 🇮🇪
28/2:
 
Hudson Taylor - 
Loving Everywhere I Go
 🇮🇪✔️
28/2:
 
God Knows - 
Who's Asking
 🇮🇪🐚
28/2:
 
The Line - 
Matter
 🇮🇪✔️
28/2:
 
Allie Sherlock - 
Allie Sherlock EP
 🇮🇪✔️
28/2:
 
Autre Monde - 
The Imaginary Museum
 🇮🇪🐚
28/2:
 
Tracy Gallagher - 
Fallen EP
 🇮🇪🐚
28/2:
 
Bon Voyage - 
High Power (Ashley Beedle, Darren Morris Remixes)
 🇮🇪🐚
28/2:
 
Aul Boy - 
Making Strange
🐚
29/2:
 
BABs - 
Microbes
 🇮🇪✔️
29/2:
 
Ghostking Is Dead - 
Fever Dreaming
 🇮🇪🐚
29/2:
 
ReDiviDeR - 
Mere Nation
 🇮🇪✔️
29/2:
 
Anna Mularkey - 
Spéir
 🇮🇪🐚
29/2:
 
The Grey Merchant - 
The Claude Glass
 🇮🇪🐚
March
2/3:
 
Panik Attaks - 
White Water Rafting
🐚
4/3:
 
Kobina - 
Lifts Me (2019​-​2020)
 🇮🇪✔️
4/3:
 
DOTT - 
Shut It Down
 🇮🇪🐚
6/3:
 
Arvo Party - 
Love Above All
 (NI)✔️
6/3:
 
Lethal Dialect - 
Ld50 Pt. 3
 🇮🇪🐚
6/3:
 
Hook - 
Hook
 🇮🇪🐚
6/3:
 
Neil Moran - 
Here To Home
🐚
6/3:
 
Conchúr White - 
Bikini Tops
 (NI)🐚
7/3:
 
Why-Axis - 
Moody Fuck
 🇮🇪✔️
13/3:
 
Hilary Woods - 
Birthmarks
 🇮🇪🐚
13/3:
 
First Class & Coach - 
The Truth About Honey
 🇮🇪🐚
13/3:
 
Niall Horan - 
Heartbreak  Weather
 🇮🇪✔️
13/3:
 
Barry Jay Hughes - 
Fully Tried and Tested (Live at the Ghostlight Sessions)
 🇮🇪🐚
13/3:
 
Clannad - 
In A Lifetime
 🇮🇪🐚
16/3:
 
Podge Lane - 
Making It Up As I Go Along PT2 (Live in Concert)
🇮🇪🐚
17/3:
 
Trú - 
The Frontier EP
 (NI)✔️
17/3:
 
Sina Theil - 
Reflections of a Celtic Heart
 (NI)🐚
19/3:
 
Villagers - 
The Art of Pretending to Swim (Deluxe)
 🇮🇪🐚
20/3:
 
Delac - 
Blue Skies
🐚
20/3:
 
Hare Squead - 
Superweird
 🇮🇪🐚
20/3:
 
Lemoncello - 
Oil and Water
 🇮🇪✔️
20/3:
 
Pinhole - 
Come Curious
 🇮🇪🐚
20/3:
 
Warriors of the Distotheque - 
Thou Shalt Not Follow
 🇮🇪🐚
20/3:
 
UD - 
Fruitless Grapevine
 🇮🇪✔️
20/3:
 
Malojian - 
HUMM
 (NI)🐚
20/3:
 
ARI.NOIR - 
EVE
 🇮🇪✔️
24/3:
 
Irish Youth Music Awards - 
Irish Youth Music Awards Live At Croke Park 2019
 🇮🇪🐚
24/3:
 Johnny Pluse - 
Butterr Vouchers Synthwave Disco Edits
🐚
26/3:
 
blackmailed & bereft - 
the debut album
 🇮🇪🐚
26/3:
 
d i z m a t i o n - 
The Future Is a Bubble
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 
Aimée - 
Confession
 🇮🇪✔️
27/3:
 Ben Reel - 
The Nashville Calling
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 
The Scratch - 
Couldn't Give A Rats
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 
The Remedy Club - 
True Hand, True Heart
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 Marc O’Reilly - 
The Monique Sessions
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 
Perlee - 
Slow Creature
 🇮🇪✔️
27/3:
 
The City Remains - 
The City Remains
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 
The Ocelots - 
Started to Wonder
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 Ryan O'Shaughnessy - 
Live Off The Floor Vol. 1 (Dublin)
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 Jeannette Byrne - 
Women of the One World
 🇮🇪🐚
27/3:
 
Vivamagnolia - 
Queen of the Rodeo
 (NI)✔️
April
1/4:
 
Fixity - 
Fixity 4
 🇮🇪🐚
2/4:
 
Séan Silke & Chris Kabs - 
Unlucky In Love
 🇮🇪✔️
3/4:
 
Lisa Lambe - 
Juniper
 🇮🇪🐚
3/4:
 
SIIGHTS - 
SIIGHTS EP
 🇮🇪🐚
3/4:
 
The Burma - 
Sugar Moonlight
 🇮🇪✔️
3/4:
 
Indian Queens - 
God Is A Woman
 🇮🇪🐚
3/4:
 
Circuit3 - 
The Rain
 🇮🇪✔️
3/4:
 The Barefoot Magicians - 
Hangin' On
 🇮🇪
4/4:
 
Kevin Judge - 
Forever EP
 🇮🇪🐚
6/4:
 
Guillaume Orti + Stéphane Payen - 
Volume I
 🇮🇪🐚
6/4:
 
Xenia Pestova Bennett - 
Atomic Legacies
 🇮🇪🐚
6/4:
 
Benjamin Dwyer - 
What is the Word
 🇮🇪🐚
6/4:
 
DIY LK - 
Bed Covers Compilation Vol​.​1
 🇮🇪🐚
6/4:
 
Lina Andonovska - 
A Way A Lone A Last
 🇮🇪🐚
6/4:
 
The Altered Hours - 
Immediate Believer EP
 🇮🇪🐚
6/4:
 
David Keenan - 
Isolation Tapes
 🇮🇪✔️
10/4:
 
Ryan McMullan - 
Ruthless Cupid
 (NI)✔️
10/4:
 
The Manhattan Syndrome - 
Goodbye Iowa
 🇮🇪🐚
10/4:
 
Sun Mahshene - 
Contradictions and Tales of Fiction
 🇮🇪✔️
10/4:
 
Pat Lagoon - 
Box Room
 🇮🇪✔️
10/4:
 
Brian Deady - 
Yellow Creek
 🇮🇪🐚
10/4:
 
Rosie Carney - 
i dreamed i was the night
 🇮🇪🐚
10/4:
 
Patricia Lalor - 
Sleep Talk
 🇮🇪✔️
10/4:
 
NODEN - 
Skinner
 🇮🇪🐚
17/4:
 
FIELDS - 
The Silence Of Staying In
 🇮🇪🐚
17/4:
 
Columbia Mills - 
CCTV
 🇮🇪🐚
17/4:
 
John Sheahan - 
Flirting Fiddles
 🇮🇪✔️
17/4:
 
Fixity - 
Fixity 5
 🇮🇪🐚
17/4:
 
Joe Chester - 
Staying Together for the Children EP
 🇮🇪🐚
17/4:
 
Ryan Vail & Elma Orkestra - 
Borders (Extended Edition)
 🇮🇪✔️
17/4:
 
blxxd & Pascalwillnotsurvivethis - 
prettikute
 (NI)🐚
17/4:
 
Outsider - 
Karma of Youth
 🇮🇪🐚
17/4:
 
Chris Haze - 
Time and Space
 🇮🇪🐚
17/4:
 
Ultan Conlon - 
There’s A Waltz
 🇮🇪🐚
22/4:
 
Simon Masterson - 
Animal Rites
 🇮🇪🐚
24/4:
 
Sunken Foal - 
Hexose
 🇮🇪✔️
24/4:
 
Reevah - 
A Different Light
 (NI)🐚
24/4:
 The Sei - 
Lumen
 🇮🇪
24/4:
 
Junk Drawer - 
Ready for the House
 (NI)🐚
24/4:
 
Gavin Murphy Songs- 
45 RPM (Replay Past Memories)
 🇮🇪🐚
24/4:
 
Podge Lane - 
Weak Beneath the Knees
 🇮🇪🐚
24/4:
 
The Academic - 
Live At The Iveagh Gardens
 🇮🇪🐚
24/4:
 
Alpha Chrome Yayo - 
19th Hole
 (NI)🐚
24/4:
 
Naoise Roo - 
Sick Girlfriend
 🇮🇪🐚
24/4:
 
Dermot Kennedy - 
Lost in the Soft Light
 🇮🇪✔️
24/4:
 
Beach Comber - 
Parting Cuts
 (NI)🐚
24/4:
 
delush - 
The Journey To Zero
 🇮🇪🐚
29/4:
 
Mark Waldron-Hyden - 
Future Life Continuity
 🇮🇪✔️
30/4:
 Blink - 
A demo of the universe 
 🇮🇪
May
1/5:
 
TRÚ - 
Liminal EP
 (NI)✔️
1/5:
 
David Keenan - 
Isolation Tapes, Vol. 2
 🇮🇪✔️
1/5:
 
Tiz McNamara - 
April Fool
 🇮🇪🐚
1/5:
 
April - 
New Conditions
 🇮🇪✔️
1/5:
 
Danny G & The Major 7ths - 
Love Joints Instrumentals
 🇮🇪✔️
1/5:
 Dara Mac - 
They Must Have Heard My Mixtape
1/5:
 
Arvo Party - 
Devotions
 (NI)✔️
1/5:
 
The Key Rocks - 
déjà rêvé
 🇮🇪🐚
1/5:
  Sola - 
Forgotten Things
 🇮🇪
1/5:
 Blondmodel - 
Neon Lights, Lonely Nights
 🇮🇪
1/5:
 
Joe Chester - 
Jupiter’s Wife
 🇮🇪🐚
3/5:
 
d i z m a t i o n - 
Who Are The Experts
 🇮🇪🐚
4/5:
 
R. Kitt - 
Orainn 01
 🇮🇪✔️
6/5:
 The Murder Capital - 
Live From BBC Maida Vale
6/5:
 luthorist - 
Amethyst Thoughts
 🇮🇪
7/5:
 The Girl Talk - 
R.I.P. The Girl Talk
 🇮🇪
8/5:
 
Swimmers Jackson - 
Murmuration
 🇮🇪🐚
8/5:
 
Rufus Coates & Jess Smith - 
Not For the Gallery
 🇮🇪🐚
8/5:
 
Jordan Run - 
In This Atmosphere
 🇮🇪🐚
8/5:
 
Evvol - 
The Power
 🇮🇪🐚
8/5:
 
Various Artists - 
This Is Who We Are: Longwave Music Volume 1
 🇮🇪🐚
8/5:
 
FONDA - 
No Begonias
 🇮🇪🐚
10/5:
 
Hey Jigsaw - 
Who’s Your Dark Master?
 🇮🇪🐚
11/5:
 
WOB! - 
NOSTOS
 🇮🇪🐚
12/5:
 cbakl - 
Please & Thank U.
 (NI)
13/5:
 
Soda Blonde - 
isolation • content
 🇮🇪🐚
15/5:
 
Cormac O Caoimh - 
Swim Crawl Walk Run
 🇮🇪✔️
15/5:
 Conor Furlong - 
Vibrating at the Speed of Light
 🇮🇪
15/5:
 Tribal Dance - 
Tribal Latino
 🇮🇪
15/5:
 
Alpha Chrome Yayo - 
Let's Get Cookin'
 (NI)✔️
15/5:
 
Vernon Jane - 
The Ritual of Love Making
 🇮🇪🐚
17/5:
 Brí Carr Music - 
H.O.M.E. (ABHAILE)
 🇮🇪
19/5:
 
Joel Harkin - 
Never Happy
 (NI)🐚
20/5:
 
Little Rivers - 
Aitia
 (NI)🐚
21/5:
 
The Grunts - 
TRIGGERED
 🇮🇪✔️
22/5:
 Cathal Flaherty - 
Cathal Flaherty Live at the INEC Acoustic Club
 🇮🇪
22/5:
 
Bleeding Heart Pidgeons - 
Stir
 🇮🇪🐚
22/5:
 
Sick Love - 
Baby It's You
 🇮🇪✔️
22/5:
 
Whozyerman - 
EP 1
 🇮🇪🐚
22/5:
 
Sir Bobby Jukebox - 
Friendship Gift
 🇮🇪🐚
22/5:
 
True Tides - 
Survive EP
 🇮🇪🐚
22/5:
 
Beoga - 
Carousel
 (NI)🐚
22/5:
 
Caroline Keane - 
Shine
 🇮🇪✔️
23/5:
 
Little Butler - 
Little Butler EP
 🇮🇪🐚
28/5:
 
Eurelle - 
Meraki 1 & 2
 🇮🇪✔️
29/5:
 
R.S.A.G. - 
Chroma
 🇮🇪✔️
29/5:
 
Side 4 Collective - 
We Burn Bright
 🇮🇪🐚
29/5:
 
Eimear Quinn - 
ÉRIU
 🇮🇪🐚
29/5:
 
Owen Denvir - 
Stones EP
 (NI)🐚
29/5:
 HUTCH - 
Romance & Melodrama
 (NI)🐚
29/5:
 
John Blek - 
Digressions #1 Live at StudiOwz
 🇮🇪🐚
29/5:
 
Robert John Ardiff - 
A Whistle In The Dark
 🇮🇪🐚
29/5:
 
Niamh Keane - 
Lake Michigan
 🇮🇪🐚
June
1/6:
 Foreign Owl - 
The Nice Place
 (NI)
4/6:
 
Beyond The Wash - 
Murmurings
 🇮🇪🐚
5/6:
 
Brigid Mae Power - 
Head Above The Water
 🇮🇪🐚
5/6:
 
The Coronas - 
LA At Night EP
 🇮🇪✔️
5/6:
 
Two Door Cinema Club - 
Lost Songs (Found)
 (NI)✔️
5/6:
 
Plaice - 
Planar En Plain Air
 🇮🇪✔️
5/6:
 
Craic Boi Mental - 
A Summer Without Craic
 🇮🇪✔️
5/6:
 
Arvo Party - 
Passenger
 (NI)✔️
5/6:
 
KOBARA - 
Five Lovely Poisons
 🇮🇪🐚
5/6:
 
Janet Devlin - 
Confessional
 (NI)✔️
5/6:
 
Shadeemus - 
Arakis
 🇮🇪🐚
5/6:
 
Stepping On Lego - 
An Honest Lie
 🇮🇪🐚
12/6:
 
Kodaline - 
One Day At A Time
 🇮🇪✔️
12/6:
 
Imelda May - 
Slip of the Tongue
 🇮🇪🐚
12/6:
 
Willow Hannon - 
Staring at Walls EP
🐚
12/6:
 
Carrie Baxter - 
Placebo
 🇮🇪🐚
12/6:
 
Paddy Dennehy - 
Little Light
 🇮🇪🐚
12/6:
 ChilloHertz  - 
Down time
 🇮🇪
14/6:
 Sinking With Love - 
Far From Where?
 🇮🇪
15/6:
 
Sons of Southern Ulster - 
Sinners and Lost Souls
 🇮🇪🐚
19/6:
 
banríon - 
Airport Dads
 🇮🇪✔️
19/6:
 
Ciaran Lavery - 
Plz Stay, bb
 (NI)🐚
19/6:
 HAWKE - 
The COVID Diary
 🇮🇪
19/6:
 CADA  - 
Muloc
 🇮🇪
19/6:
 
Jordan Adetunji - 
The R&B Love Files: Quarantine
 🇮🇪🐚
19/6:
 
MATT TAYLOR - 
The Breath Within Your Chest
 🇮🇪🐚
19/6:
 
Peter Vogelaar - 
Inner Creatures
 🇮🇪🐚
19/6:
 Fergal Eward - 
The Light Of Everything
 🇮🇪
19/6:
 
Milk. - 
1, the EP
 🇮🇪🐚
21/6:
 Jonathan Crean - 
Wander Back In
 🇮🇪
25/6:
 Caimin Gilmore - 
String Ogham
 🇮🇪
26/6:
 
Jack Rua - 
Narcissus
 🇮🇪✔️
26/6:
 
Allie Sherlock - 
A Part Of Me
 🇮🇪🐚
26/6:
 Anna Murray - 
These Are the First Worlds I’ve Spoken
 🇮🇪
26/6:
 Alpha Chroma Yayo - 
Skylight Sessions
 (NI)🐚
26/6:
 Conor Adams - 
I Admired Your Grace at the End of the World (2 for Joy)
 🇮🇪✔️
26/6:
 The Scratch - 
Old Songs EP
 🇮🇪
July
1/7:
 
Shaefri - 
Girl - EP
 🇮🇪🐚
3/7:
 
MuRli - 
Till The Wheels Fall Off
 🇮🇪🐚
3/7:
 
And So I Watch You From Afar - 
Successors
 (NI)✔️
3/7:
 
Arvo Party - 
Devotions II
 (NI)✔️
3/7:
 Cronin - 
A View From The Next Room
 🇮🇪
3/7:
 
Daithí - 
Drifting (Music for a Short Film)
 🇮🇪🐚
3/7:
 
King Pallas - 
We Pause
 🇮🇪🐚
3/7:
 The Winter Passing - 
New Ways Of Living
 🇮🇪
3/7:
 Lucy Gaffney - 
In The Air
 🇮🇪
3/7:
 
Plaice - 
Losses
 🇮🇪✔️
8/7:
 Alice LA - 
Sleeps Not Real
 (NI)
10/7:
 Our Krypton Son - 
Modern Ruins
 (NI)
10/7:
 Jordan Run - 
Lockdown Tapes
 🇮🇪
10/7:
 Miles Graham - 
All The Right Things
 🇮🇪
10/7:
 
Cian Ducrot - 
started in college (mixtape)
 🇮🇪✔️
10/7:
 
The Academic - 
Acting My Age
 🇮🇪✔️
10/7:
 
Gemma Dunleavy - 
Up De Flats
 🇮🇪🐚
12/7:
 Vivid Dreamer - 
Vivid Dreamer
 (NI)
17/7:
 
Silverbacks - 
Fad
 🇮🇪🐚
17/7:
 
1000 Beasts - 
On A Different Page
 🇮🇪✔️
17/7:
 
Rews - 
Today We're Warriors
 (NI)✔️
17/7:
 Steven Cooper - 
Move My Body (Ugh)
 🇮🇪
23/7:
 Other Child - 
Good Boy Charlie
 🇮🇪
23/7:
 Automatic Tasty - 
A Farewell To Reason
 🇮🇪
24/7:
 Autumns - 
Laying Heavy
 🇮🇪
24/7:
 Rhoshi & Cheesmore - 
Becoming, Beginning
 🇮🇪
24/7:
 
Ronan Keating - 
Twenty Twenty
 🇮🇪✔️
24/7:
 cbakl & Donkobz - 
Different Gravy
 (NI)
24/7:
 Aislinn Logan - 
Look, I’m Flyin
 🇮🇪
24/7:
 
Finnian - 
Under The Influence
 🇮🇪🐚
24/7:
 
Patricia Lalor - 
Do It Again
 🇮🇪✔️
24/7:
 Mick Flannery - 
Alive (Live From Cork Opera House 2019)
 🇮🇪
24/7:
 Sorcha Richardson - 
isolation home recordings
 🇮🇪🐚
24/7:
 Luke Clerkin - 
What Little Time We Have
 🇮🇪
24/7:
 
Maverick Sabre - 
You Know How It Feels
 🇮🇪✔️
24/7:
 Brién - 
DIY VOL. 1
 (NI)
24/7:
 
Archmotors - 
The Swimsuit Edition
 🇮🇪🐚
24/7:
 
Cursed Murphy Versus the Resistance - 
Cursed Murphy Versus the Resistance
 🇮🇪🐚
27/7:
 Pale Blue Moon - 
The Pleasure of Finding Things Out
 🇮🇪
28/7:
 Lighght - 
Sorry I Can't Go Out Tonight, I'm Too Busy Going In
 🇮🇪
29/7:
 
The Swedish Railway Orchestra - 
The Swedish Railway Orchestra
 🇮🇪🐚
31/7:
 
Fontaines D.C. - 
A Hero's Death
 🇮🇪✔️
31/7:
 
The Coronas - 
True Love Waits
 🇮🇪✔️
31/7:
 
Kenan Flannery - 
Bedroom Sessions Lockdown EP
 🇮🇪🐚
31/7:
 
Blake's Fortune - 
Searcher Dreamer
 🇮🇪🐚
31/7:
 
Hazey Haze & 40hurtz - 
Pignorant
 🇮🇪🐚
31/7:
 
Lone & KETTAMA - 
Lone X KETTAMA
 🇮🇪🐚
31/7:
 The Swedish Railway Orchestra - 
The Swedish Railway Orchestra (Deluxe Edition)
 🇮🇪
31/7:
 
uly - 
if you were a day, you’d be Sunday (songs to go walking to)
 🇮🇪✔️
31/7:
 
Jacqui Sharkey - 
Home
 🇮🇪🐚
31/7:
 
Moon Paw Print - 
Dreams of Ü
 (NI)🐚
31/7:
 The Annulments - 
Dead Preservations
 🇮🇪
August
1/8:
 Pete Courtney - 
A Parallax Muse
 🇮🇪
5/8:
 Postcard Versions - 
Remote Viewing
 🇮🇪
7/8:
 
Emma Langford - 
Sowing Acorns EP
 🇮🇪🐚
7/8:
 cbakl - 
Where Do We Go?
 (NI)
7/8:
 Somebody's Child - 
20-Something
 🇮🇪
7/8:
 
Rews - 
Warriors
 (NI)🐚
10/8:
 Synead Toomey - 
Falling
 🇮🇪
14/8:
 Martha Ffion - 
Night To Forget
 🇮🇪
14/8:
 
Perlee - 
Half Seen Figure
 🇮🇪✔️
14/8:
 The Dagenham Yanks - 
Trance-Substantiation
 🇮🇪
15/8:
 Martkel - 
Heaven Is Full
 🇮🇪
16/8:
 Arvo Party - 
Remixes For Lebanon
 (NI)
17/8:
 
Fixity - 
Fixity 6
 🇮🇪🐚
21/8:
 
Snow Patrol & The Saturday Songwriters - 
The Fireside Sessions
 (NI)✔️
21/8:
 
Walking on Cars - 
Clouds
 🇮🇪✔️
21/8:
 
INSIDEAWAVE - 
INSIDEAWAVE EP
 🇮🇪🐚
21/8:
 Conor Clinch - 
For When I'm Not Around
 🇮🇪
21/8:
 
ROE - 
Things We Don't Talk About
 (NI)🐚
21/8:
 Laurie Shaw - 
Annual
 🇮🇪
24/8:
 Shifting - 
It Was Good
 🇮🇪
24/8:
 The Elephant Room - 
Waterloo Teeth
 🇮🇪
24/8:
 
Pinhead Reverie - 
Scrawls from the Bedroom Floor
 🇮🇪🐚
24/8:
 Strangers With Guns - 
Disenfranchised Fetus
 🇮🇪
25/8:
 
Sun Collective - 
MOVE || REMOVE
 🇮🇪🐚
28/8:
 
Marcus Woods - 
Self-Portrait
 🇮🇪🐚
28/8:
 Screaming Orphans - 
Sunshine And Moss
 🇮🇪
28/8:
 
One Morning In August - 
One Morning In August
 🇮🇪✔️
28/8:
 
We Cut Corners - 
Muscle Memory EP
 🇮🇪🐚
28/8:
 Autumns - 
You Are Now Listening To Autumns
 🇮🇪
28/8:
 Absentee - 
Love Letters of an Absent Mind
 🇮🇪
28/8:
  Chaz - 
OuchChaz EP
 🇮🇪
28/8:
 
Daniel Blume - 
You Gave Me A Title, I Made A Song
 🇮🇪🐚
28/8:
  Fat Pablo - 
Fat Pablo
 🇮🇪
28/8:
  Flavia - 
Out Loud
 🇮🇪
29/8:
 
David Keenan - 
Alchemy & Prose: Live Recordings
 🇮🇪✔️
September
2/9:
 
Girl Band - 
Live at Vicar Street
🐚
4/9:
 
God Knows - 
Who’s Asking? EP Vol. II
 🇮🇪🐚
4/9:
 Niamh Regan - 
Hemet
 🇮🇪
4/9:
 NONZUS MAGNUS - 
Blank Canvas
4/9:
 
Protobaby - 
Twisted Words
 🇮🇪🐚
4/9:
 Josh Johnston - 
Where We’re Standing Now
 🇮🇪
4/9:
 Mary Coughlan - 
Life Stories
 🇮🇪
4/9:
 My Sweet Beloved - 
My Sweet Beloved
 🇮🇪
4/9:
 
Joshua Burnside - 
Into The Depths Of Hell
 (NI)✔️
7/9:
John Daly - 
Freedom EP
 🇮🇪
16/9:
 Clannad - 
Rarities
 🇮🇪🐚
16/9:
 
Sinead O Brien - 
Drowning in Blessings
 🇮🇪🐚
17/9:
 Fiona Harte - 
Home Recordings
 🇮🇪
18/9:
 
R.Kitt - 
Orainn 02
 🇮🇪🐚
18/9:
 
Emma Langford - 
Sowing Acorns
 🇮🇪🐚
18/9:
 
Jealous of the Birds - 
Peninsula
 (NI)🐚
18/9:
 Boris Dlugosch - 
Never Enough EP
18/9:
 SORBET - 
Life Variations EP
 🇮🇪
18/9:
 ADT - 
Volume I
 🇮🇪
18/9:
 Paddy Chambers - 
Emerald Acid  E.P.
18/9:
 Brass Phantoms - 
Holding Out For Horrors
 🇮🇪
18/9:
 
Æ MAK - 
how to: make a kitsch pop song to show the world
 🇮🇪🐚
24/9:
 
Lenii - 
In All Fairness...
 🇮🇪🐚
25/9:
 
Pillow Queens - 
In Waiting
 🇮🇪🐚
25/9:
 
Róisín Murphy - 
Róisín Machine
 🇮🇪🐚
25/9:
 Padraig Jack - 
Making Sand
 🇮🇪
25/9:
 Channel Aid & Allie Sherlock - 
Live At Elbphilharmonie
 🇮🇪
25/9:
 
Damien Lynch - 
EPW​-​01
 🇮🇪✔️
25/9:
 
Dermot Kennedy - 
Giants Remixes
 🇮🇪🐚
25/9:
 
Gadget and the Cloud - 
Things I'll Never Say
 🇮🇪✔️
25/9:
 Moons Delux - 
Life in Transit
 🇮🇪
25/9:
 
Kean Kavanagh - 
Dog Person
 🇮🇪🐚
25/9:
 Hutch - 
Soft Touch
 (NI)🐚
26/9:
 Stano - 
Anthology
 🇮🇪
28/9:
 Outsider Yp - 
Wilder: "Love + Chaos"
 🇮🇪
29/9:
 7 Daughters - 
The Seventh Daughter
 🇮🇪
October
1/10:
 
Ordnance Survey - 
Ampere
 🇮🇪🐚
2/10:
 
Mister KYB - 
Self Sabotage
 🇮🇪🐚
2/10:
 
Ciaran Lavery - 
Plz Stay, bb (Deluxe Version)
 (NI)🐚
2/10:
 
The Famous Painters - 
Indigenous Perambulations
 🇮🇪🐚
2/10:
 
Patricia Lalor - 
Covers EP1
 🇮🇪✔️
2/10:
 
Fiachna Ó Braonáin - 
Winter Sun
 🇮🇪✔️
2/10:
 
Alex Gough - 
FOREVER CLASSIC
 🇮🇪🐚
2/10:
 
Denise Chaila - 
Go Bravely
 🇮🇪🐚
2/10:
 
Gavin James - 
Boxes EP
 🇮🇪✔️
2/10:
 
CATALAN! - 
Veritas
 (NI)🐚
2/10:
 
Arvo Party - 
Inheritance
 (NI)✔️
2/10:
 
Ailbhe Reddy - 
Personal History
 🇮🇪✔️
3/10:
 
Panos Ghikas - 
Unrealtime
 🇮🇪🐚
8/10:
 
EMBRZ - 
Jaded
 🇮🇪✔️
9/10:
 
Craic Boi Mental - 
Craic Magic
 🇮🇪🐚
9/10:
 
Tolü Makay - 
BEING
 🇮🇪🐚
12/10:
 
Tommy Keyes - 
Ageing With Attitude
 🇮🇪🐚
14/10:
 
Pearse McGloughlin & Nocturnes- 
The Rest
 🇮🇪🐚
15/10:
 
Origin Story - 
Good Friday
 🇮🇪✔️
15/10:
 EFÉ - 
What Should We Do This Summer?
 🇮🇪
16/10:
 
Tebi Rex - 
Brackets
 🇮🇪✔️
16/10:
 
Paddy Hanna - 
The Hill
 🇮🇪🐚
16/10:
 Lisa Gorry - 
Is It Me?
 🇮🇪
16/10:
 
Dermot Kennedy - 
Giants EP
 🇮🇪🐚
16/10:
 
Feather Beds - 
Fragile / Temper
 🇮🇪🐚
16/10:
 
IN-IS - 
2068
 🇮🇪🐚
16/10:
 
Jeag - 
Finally
 🇮🇪✔️
16/10:
 
DYVR - 
Part Two
 (NI)🐚
16/10:
 
The Zang! - 
The Zang!
 (NI)🐚
21/10:
 Animal Party - 
Enchantment
 🇮🇪
23/10:
 
April - 
Luna
 🇮🇪🐚
23/10:
 RÓGAN x ØMEGA - 
Don’t Forget To Remember Radio: Episode I
 🇮🇪
23/10:
 
Flynn - 
One of Us EP
 🇮🇪✔️
23/10:
 Caleb Kunle - 
Rose Hertz
 🇮🇪
23/10:
 Prester John - 
We Found Prester John
 🇮🇪
23/10:
 
Eve Belle - 
In Between Moments
 🇮🇪🐚
23/10:
 
Kieran Ring - 
The Sweetest Kill
 🇮🇪🐚
27/10:
 Breezy Ideygoke - 
I-DEY
 🇮🇪🐚
30/10:
 U2 - 
All That You Can't Leave Behind (20th Anniversary Edition / Super Deluxe / Remastered 2020)
 🇮🇪
30/10:
 
Nealo - 
All The Leaves Are Falling
 🇮🇪🐚
30/10:
 
Luunah - 
Luunah
 🇮🇪🐚
30/10:
 Havvk - 
Plans with Friends
 🇮🇪
30/10:
 Oliver Cole - 
Father Brother Son
 🇮🇪
30/10:
 
Mango X Mathman - 
Casual Remix
 🇮🇪🐚
30/10:
 Matt Ryder - 
Soundless Motion
30/10:
 Yasya - 
Clean Love
 🇮🇪
30/10:
 
Nicolas Kluzek - 
Mediterranean Feel
 🇮🇪✔️
31/10:
 THEE U.F.O. - 
Light Boat Drones
 🇮🇪
31/10:
 Vulpynes - 
Us Against Them
 🇮🇪
November
5/11:
 Eoghan Ó Ceannabháin & Ultan O’Brien - 
Solas an Lae
 🇮🇪
5/11:
 Pop Wallace - 
Good Boy
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 
Dermot Kennedy - 
Without Fear: Complete Edition
 🇮🇪✔️
6/11:
 Trophy Boyfriend - 
Lost & Fond
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 Trophy Wife- 
Art
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 Killian O'Kelly - 
Luzhny's Layer
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 Jafaris - 
I Love You But I’m in A Bad…Mood
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 Seamus Fogarty - 
A Bag Of Eyes
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 
JC Stewart - 
When The Light Hits The Room
 🇮🇪✔️
6/11:
 Cormac Neeson - 
White Feather (Deluxe Edition)
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 BlockC - 
Heather Road
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 Emzee A - 
Soon I Will Tell You Everything
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 Crome Yellow - 
No Friends or Mirrors
 🇮🇪🐚
6/11:
 Boyfrens - 
You and Me and Them
 🇮🇪🐚
6/11:
 Bitch Falcon - 
Staring At Clocks
 🇮🇪
6/11:
 Together Animals - 
Rise And Fall EP
 🇮🇪
12/11:
 Nathan Carter - 
The Best of the First 10 Years - Anniversary Collection
🇮🇪
13/11:
 Christy Moore - 
The Early Years: 1969-98
 🇮🇪
13/11:
 Eve's Record Box - 
Solo Heroes
 🇮🇪
16/11:
 2e - 
Mad Scientist
 🇮🇪
20/11:
 Amy Montgomery - 
Intangible
 🇮🇪
20/11:
 Kodaline - 
One Day At A Time (Deluxe Edition)
 🇮🇪
20/11:
 We March - 
Fight or Flight
 🇮🇪
20/11:
 Andrew Simon McAllister - 
Memories
 (NI)
20/11:
 BK Pepper - 
Territories
 🇮🇪✔️
20/11:
 Rowan - 
No One Is Safe Here
 🇮🇪
20/11:
 Picturehouse - 
1999 - Live in Dublin
 🇮🇪
20/11:
 Elaine Freeman - 
LA ESPERANZA
 🇮🇪✔️
20/11:
 Columbia Mills - 
Remixed EP
 🇮🇪🐚
20/11:
 THUMPER - 
Topher Grace Remixes EP
 🇮🇪
22/11:
 Malaki - 
Chrysalis
25/11:
 Brad Heidi - 
The First
 🇮🇪
25/11:
 Charles Boulevard - 
Rendez-Vous
27/11:
 Sharon Shannon - 
The Reckoning
 🇮🇪
27/11:
 The Din - 
Digress
 🇮🇪
27/11:
 Battles Skies - 
Atoms
 🇮🇪
27/11:
 Una Keane - 
Collaborations
27/11:
 Art of Algebra - 
Under A Different Light
 🇮🇪
27/11:
 Alicia Raye - 
Alphabet (Irish Collaborative Tape)
 🇮🇪
27/11:
 Derek Ryan - 
The Road To Christmas
27/11:
 wilfred. - 
Slow Moving Creatures
27/11:
 LYRA - 
The Magic of Christmas
30/11:
 Badhands - 
Oceans
 🇮🇪
December
1/12:
 Keywest - 
A Year to Forget But a Christmas to Remember
 🇮🇪
1/12:
 Opacas - 
We Won't Look Back
3/12:
 Loah & Bantum - 
Sweet Sorrow
3/12:
 The Mary Stokes Band - 
Comin' Home
4/12:
 shiv - 
Me 2 Me
 🇮🇪
4/12:
 Fontaines D.C. - 
A Night at Montrose - Selects
 🇮🇪
4/12:
 Patricia Lalor - 
This Is How We Connect, While You Stand So Tall
4/12:
 Wallis Bird - 
Retrospective Sessions
4/12:
 Kenan Flannery - 
I’ve Been Condemned
 🇮🇪
4/12:
 GAMA BOMB - 
Sea Savage
4/12:
 Mick Flannery - 
Mickmas EP, Vol. 3
4/12:
 Mulcahy - 
We Were Here
5/12:
 JyellowL - 
2020 D|vision
 🇮🇪
8/12:
 Francie Conway - 
Hidden Gems
 🇮🇪
10/12:
 Citrus Fresh - 
Operating System
11/12:
 Rosie Carney - 
The Bends
 🇮🇪
11/12:
 Ejeca - 
Sunburst
11/12:
 Kyoto Love Hotel - 
Grow
 🇮🇪
11/12:
 Moncrieff - 
The Class of 2020
 🇮🇪
11/12:
 Jamie O’Reilly - 
Me And Only Me
11/12:
 A92 - 
92 Degrees
 🇮🇪
13/12:
 Fehdah - 
Kinematics
16/12:
 Lorcán MacMathuna - 
An Bhuatais and The Meaning of Life
 🇮🇪
18/12:
 Foy Vance - 
Hope in the Highlands: Recorded Live from Dunvarlich
 (NI)
18/12:
 FOSZA - 
Coral
20/12:
 Barry Jay Hughes - 
A Christmas Gathering
To Be Announced
BRÍDÍN - 
Wysteria
 🇮🇪
Brian Barron - 
Century Of The Self
 🇮🇪
Caomhín ó Raghallaigh & Dan Trueman - 
The Fate of Bones
 🇮🇪
Caz9 & Cidot - 
Collide
 🇮🇪
Chris Kabs - 
Therapy
 🇮🇪
Claire Z - 
Between The Sun And The Moon
 🇮🇪
Clare Sands - 
Clare Sands
 🇮🇪
Col Patterson - 
Dare You Come To Mind
 🇮🇪
Comrade Hat - 
Old Gods, Volume 1
 (NI)
Comrade Hat - 
Old Gods, Volume 2
 (NI)
Damien Rice - 
10 Days To Barcelona
 🇮🇪
Damsel - 
Pride & Joy
 🇮🇪
Darce - 
Rural Wifi
 🇮🇪
David Dee Moore - 
David Dee Moore
 🇮🇪
Drops of Green - 
On The Carousel
Dunluvly - 
Plethora
 🇮🇪
Eimear - 
Pieces
Farah Elle - 
Fatima
 🇮🇪
Faraway Martin - 
Faraway Martin EP
 🇮🇪
Finbar Furey - 
Blue Jewel In The Sky
 🇮🇪
Graham Sweeney - 
I Am
 🇮🇪
Greg Clifford - 
Lines Of Desire
 🇮🇪
Hallie - 
Waves EP
 🇮🇪
Hometime - 
Past Imperfect
 🇮🇪
Isaac Nelson - 
Mood Fades
 🇮🇪
John Spillane - 
100 Snow White Horses
 🇮🇪
Joseph Kiernan - 
Joseph Kiernan EP
 🇮🇪
KEHLI - 
Hypnotized
 🇮🇪
Kevin Murphy/The Blind Stitch - 
The Emperor’s Lung
 🇮🇪
KTG - 
The Long Road Home
 🇮🇪
Lavengro - 
Consequences
 (NI)
Lodu - 
Maya
 🇮🇪
Lullahush - 
A City Made Of Water And Small Love
 🇮🇪
Magda Davitt/Sinead O'Connor - 
No Mud No Lotus
 🇮🇪
Martin Mackie - 
Temperance Songs
 🇮🇪
Megan O’Neill - 
Getting Comfortable With Uncertainty
 🇮🇪
Meljoann - 
HR
 🇮🇪
Micheál Quinn - 
Colours
 🇮🇪
Michelle Daly - 
January Skies
 🇮🇪
Owen Denvir - 
Bones EP
 (NI)
Owen Denvir - 
Sticks, Stones & Bones
 (NI)
Paradox - 
Chapters
 🇮🇪
Pauric O'Meara - 
Looking Forward To Hindsight
 🇮🇪
Peter O'Toole - 
Leaving White Cedar
 🇮🇪
Power of Dreams - 
Auslander
 🇮🇪
Raglans - 
Heavy Medicine
 🇮🇪
Rising Damp - 
Petrol Factory
Sacred Animals - 
Odin's Wain
 🇮🇪
Shane Ó Fearghail - 
Born From Tradition
 🇮🇪
Sia Babez - 
Inception EP
 🇮🇪
Strabe - 
Juvenoia
 🇮🇪
Strings & Things - 
The Unsolicited Dance
 🇮🇪
Susie Q - 
Into The Sea
 🇮🇪
The Crayon Set - 
Downer Disco
 🇮🇪
The Lost Messiahs - 
Deconstruction of the Mind
 🇮🇪
Together Animals - 
Together Animals EP
 🇮🇪
Trú - 
No Fixed abode
 (NI)
U.M.A.N. - 
Change
 🇮🇪
Yurn - 
Stay in Touch EP
 🇮🇪
Adrian O’Connell & Ropes of Sand - new EP 🇮🇪
Aleigh - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Ava (Eabha McMahon) - Debut Album 🇮🇪
BANYAH - Debut EP  🇮🇪
Brian McGrane - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Bullet Girl - New Album  🇮🇪
Caoilian Sherlock - New EP 🇮🇪
Davie Furey  - New Album 🇮🇪
Ghost Office - Debut Album (NI)
Elkin - New EP 🇮🇪
Everthing Shook - New EP 🇮🇪
Fia Moon - New Mixtape
Future West - New Album 🇮🇪
George Myrphy & The Rising Sons - New Album 🇮🇪
Hermitage Green - Second Album 🇮🇪
Honas - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Imelda Kehoe - Second Album 🇮🇪
Imlé - Second Album 🇮🇪
James Cramer - Debut Solo Album 🇮🇪
James Vincent McMorrow - Fifth Album 🇮🇪
Jane Willow - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Joy Crookes - Debut Album
Larissa Tormey - Album 6 🇮🇪
Liam Geddes - New EP 🇮🇪
Maca - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Nathan Carte - New Album 🇮🇪
Ogenblik - New Album 🇮🇪
Orla Gartland - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Picture This - Album 3 🇮🇪
Pity of the Sea - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Proper Micro NV - New Album 🇮🇪
PureGrand - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Rejjie Snow - Second Album 🇮🇪
Roy Buckley - New Album 🇮🇪
Ryan McMullan - Debut Album (NI)
Shrug Life - Second Album 🇮🇪
SIIGHTS - EP2 🇮🇪
SIIGHTS - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Sinking With Love - New Album 🇮🇪
Síomha - New Album 🇮🇪
Slyrydes - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Ten Ton Slug - New Album 🇮🇪
The Flag listeneres - New Album 🇮🇪
The Mary Wallopers - Debut Album 🇮🇪
Varo - Collaboration Project 🇮🇪
Villagers - New Album 🇮🇪
Will De Burca - Album 3 🇮🇪
Zapho - Debut Album 🇮🇪
ZASKA - New Album 🇮🇪
Rumoured
A Ritual Sea - Debut Album
Aidan Laird - New Album
Any Joy - New Album
Aoife Carton - New EP
Badhands - second album
Blake's Fortune - New Album
Blind Poets - Debut EP
Colin O'Shea - second album
Cua - new album
Daytona Rose - Debut EP
Declan Synnott - New Album
Deep Sky Objects - New Album
Evamore - Debut Album
Faraway Martin - Debut EP
Fiona Maria - Debut EP
Fonda - EP3
HamSandwich - New Album
Heathers - New Album
Host - Debut EP
Innocent Bystander - New Album
Insufficient Funs - Debut Album
Ivan Nicolas - New Album
Jinx Lennon - New Album
Jon Lui - Debut EP
Jonah Class - New EP
Just Mustard - New Album
Kelan Galligan - Debut Album
Kern - Second Album
Kevin Nolan - Second Album
Manyana - Debut Album
Marty Mone - Third Album
MINDRIOT - Second album
Molly Sterling - Debut EP
Montauk Hotel - EP2/ Debut Album
My Bloody Valentine - 2 new albums/EPs coming
Nix Moon - Debut Album
Paddy Casey - New Album
RUN IN RED - New Album
Rory and The Island - New Album
Rowlette - Debut EP
Ruth Mac - Debut EP
Samantha Mumba - new album
Sean Fox - New Album
Sean Mathews - New Album
Seanie Vaughan - new album
Seba Safe - new album
Square Pegs - New Album
Strawman & The Jackdaws - Debut EP
Syrens - Debut EP
Talle DaVinci - new album/EP
The DC Experiment - New Album
The Inside Out - Debut Album
Tod Doyle - Second Album
Track Dogs - Album 5
True Tides - Debut EP/Album
V98 - debut EP
Valerie Armstrong - New Album
Waiting Space - New EP
We Banjo 3 - New Album
Wild Youth - Debut Album
Windsings - New Album
Yankari - Debut Album
Yenkee - Debut Album
2021
BTS - Butter
Maroon 5 - Memories
Imagine Dragons - Follow You
One Direction - Best Song Ever
Queen - Bohemian Rhapsody
The Beatles - Let It Be (Remastered 2009)
Måneskin - Beggin'
Arctic Monkeys - Why'd You Only Call Me When You're High?
Linkin Park - In the End
BLACKPINK - Ice Cream (with Selena Gomez)
Twenty One Pilots - Shy Away
$uicideboy$ - ...And to Those I Love, Thanks for Sticking Around
The Neighbourhood - Sweater Weather
Red Hot Chili Peppеrs - Scar Tissue
AC/DC - Thunderstruck
Black Eyed Pеas - I Gotta Feeling
OneRepublic - Someday
Metallica - Enter Sandman
Little Mix - Sweet Melody
Zé Felipe & Os Barões Da Pisadinha - Senta Danada
The Chainsmokers, ILLENIUM & Lennon Stella - Takeaway
Glass Animals - Heat Waves
TWICE - The Feels
Nirvana - Come As You Are
Migos - Straightenin
Banda MS de Sergio Lizárraga - La Casita
Reik & Maluma - Perfecta
Grupo Firme - Ya Supérame (En Vivo)
Green Day - Boulevard of Broken Dreams
5 Seconds of Summer - Youngblood
ABBA - Chiquitita
The Rolling Stones - Start Me Up (Remastered 2009)
Panic! At The Disco - High Hopes
Pink Floyd - Wish You Were Here (2011 Remaster)
Bob Marley & The Wailers - Is This Love
Guns N' Roses - Sweet Child O' Mine
Jorge & Mateus - Namorando Com Saudade
Internet Money - His & Hers (feat. don Toliver, Lil Uzi Vert & Gunna)
Tame Impala - Borderline
Wisin & Yandel, Chris Brown & T-Pain - Algo Me Gusta De Ti
Daft Punk - One More Time
Jonas Brothers - Sucker
Aventura & Bad Bunny - Volví
U2 - Beautiful Day
Bring Me The Horizon - DiE4u
Bon Jovi - It's My Life
Led Zeppelin - Whole Lotta Love (1990 Remaster)
Calibre 50 - A La Antigüita
Henrique & Juliano - Arranhão (Ao Vivo)
Stray Kids - Thunderous
On 
December 5, 1955
, to the amused annoyance of the white citizens of Montgomery, Alabama, 
an obscure young Baptist minister named Martin Luther King, Jr., called a city-wide Negro boycott of its segregated bus system.
 To their consternation, however, it was almost 100 percent successful; it lasted for 381 days and nearly bankrupted the bus line. 
When King's home was bombed during the siege
, thousands of enraged Negroes were ready to riot, but the soft-spoken clergyman prevailed on them to channel their anger into nonviolent protest—
and became world-renowned as a champion of Gandhi's philosophy of passive resistance
. 
Within a year the Supreme Court had ruled Jim Crow seating unlawful on Montgomery's buses
, and King found himself, at 27, on the front lines of a nonviolent Negro revolution against racial injustice.
Moving to Atlanta, he formed the 
Southern Christian Leadership Conference
, an alliance of church-affiliated civil rights organizations which joined such activist groups as 
CORE
 and 
SNCC
 in a widening campaign of sit-in demonstrations and freedom rides throughout the South. Dissatisfied with the slow pace of the protest movement, King decided to create a crisis in 1963 that would "dramatize the Negro plight and galvanize the national conscience." He was abundantly successful, for his mass nonviolent demonstration in arch-segregationist Birmingham resulted in the arrest of more than 3300 Negroes, including King himself; and millions were outraged by front-page pictures of Negro demonstrators being brutalized by the billy sticks, police dogs and fire hoses of police chief Bull Connor.
In the months that followed, mass sit-ins and demonstrations erupted in 800 Southern cities; President Kennedy proposed a Civil Rights Bill aimed at the enforcement of voting rights, equal employment opportunities, and the desegregation of public facilities, and the now-famous march on Washington, 200,000 strong, was eloquently addressed by King on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. By the end of that "long hot summer," America's Negroes had won more tangible gains than in any year since 1865—and Martin Luther King had become their acknowledged leader and most respected spokesman.
He earned it the hard way: In the course of his civil rights work he has been jailed 14 times and stabbed once in the chest; his home has been bombed three times; and his daily mail brings a steady flow of death threats and obscenities. Undeterred, he works 20 hours a day, travels 325,000 miles and makes 450 speeches a year throughout the country on behalf of the Negro cause. Inundated by calls, callers and correspondence at his S.C.L.C. office in Atlanta, he also finds time somehow to preach, visit the sick and help the poor among his congregation at the city's Ebenezer Baptist Church, of which he and his father are the pastors.
So heavy, in fact, were his commitments when we called him last summer for an interview, that two months elapsed before he was able to accept our request for an appointment. We kept it—only to spend a week in Atlanta waiting vainly for him to find a moment for more than an apology and a hurried handshake. A bit less pressed when we returned for a second visit, King was finally able to sandwich in a series of hour and half-hour conversations with us among the other demands of a grueling week. The resultant interview is the longest he has ever granted to any publication.
Though he spoke with heartfelt and often eloquent sincerity, his tone was one of businesslike detachment. And his mood, except for one or two flickering smiles of irony, was gravely serious—never more so than the moment, during a rare evening with his family on our first night in town, when his four children chided him affectionately for "not being home enough." After dinner, we began the interview on this personal note.
Playboy:
 Dr. King, are your children old enough to be aware of the issues at stake in the civil rights movement, and of your role in it?
King:
 Yes, they are—especially my oldest child, Yolanda. Two years ago, I remember, I returned home after serving one of my terms in the Albany, Georgia, jail, and she asked me, "Daddy, why do you have to go to jail so much?" I told her that I was involved in a struggle to make conditions better for the colored people, and thus for all people. I explained that because things are as they are, someone has to take a stand, that it is necessary for someone to go to jail, because many Southern officials seek to maintain the barriers that have historically been erected to exclude the colored people. I tried to make her understand that someone had to do this to make the world better—for all children. She was only six at that time, but she was already aware of segregation because of an experience that we had had.
Playboy:
 Would you mind telling us about it?
King:
 Not at all. The family often used to ride with me to the Atlanta airport, and on our way, we always passed Funtown, a sort of miniature Disneyland with mechanical rides and that sort of thing. Yolanda would inevitably say, "I want to go to Funtown," and I would always evade a direct reply. I really didn't know how to explain to her why she couldn't go. Then one day at home, she ran downstairs exclaiming that a TV commercial was urging people to come to Funtown. Then my wife and I had to sit down with her between us and try to explain it. I have won some applause as a speaker, but my tongue twisted and my speech stammered seeking to explain to my six-year-old daughter why the public invitation on television didn't include her, and others like her. One of the most painful experiences I have ever faced was to see her tears when I told her that Funtown was closed to colored children, for I realized that at that moment the first dark cloud of inferiority had floated into her little mental sky, that at that moment her personality had begun to warp with that first unconscious bitterness toward white people. It was the first time that prejudice based upon skin color had been explained to her. But it was of paramount importance to me that she not grow up bitter. So I told her that although many white people were against her going to Funtown, there were many others who did want colored children to go. It helped somewhat. Pleasantly, word came to me later that Funtown had quietly desegregated, so I took Yolanda. A number of white persons there asked, "Aren't you Dr. King, and isn't this your daughter?" I said we were, and she heard them say how glad they were to see us there.
Playboy:
 As one who grew up in the economically comfortable, socially insulated environment of a middle-income home in Atlanta, can you recall when it was that you yourself first became painfully and personally aware of racial prejudice?
King:
 Very clearly. When I was 14, I had traveled from Atlanta to Dublin, Georgia, with a dear teacher of mine, Mrs. Bradley; she's dead now. I had participated there in an oratorical contest sponsored by the Negro Elks. It turned out to be a memorable day, for I had succeeded in winning the contest. My subject, I recall, ironically enough, was "The Negro and the Constitution." Anyway, that night, Mrs. Bradley and I were on a bus returning to Atlanta, and at a small town along the way, some white passengers boarded the bus, and the white driver ordered us to get up and give the whites our seats. We didn't move quickly enough to suit him, so he began cursing us, calling us "black sons of bitches." I intended to stay right in that seat, but Mrs. Bradley finally urged me up, saying we had to obey the law. And so we stood up in the aisle for the 90 miles to Atlanta. That night will never leave my memory. It was the angriest I have ever been in my life.
Playboy:
 Wasn't it another such incident on a bus, years later, that thrust you into your present role as a civil rights leader?King:
 Yes, it was—in Montgomery, Alabama, in 1955. E.D. Nixon, a Pullman porter long identified with the NAACP, telephoned me late one night to tell me that Mrs. Rosa Parks had been arrested around seven-thirty that evening when a bus driver demanded that she give up her seat, and she refused—because her feet hurt. Nixon had already bonded Mrs. Parks out of prison. He said, "It's time this stops; we ought to boycott the buses." I agreed and said, "Now." The next night we called a meeting of Negro community leaders to discuss it, and on Saturday and Sunday we appealed to the Negro community, with leaflets and from the pulpits, to boycott the buses on Monday. We had in mind a one-day boycott, and we were banking on 60-percent success. But the boycott saw instantaneous 99-percent success. We were so pleasantly surprised and impressed that we continued, and for the next 381 days the boycott of Montgomery's buses by Negroes was 99 9/10 successful.
Playboy:
 Were you sure you'd win?
King:
 There was one dark moment when we doubted it. We had been struggling to make the boycott a success when the city of Montgomery successfully obtained an injunction from the court to stop our car pool. I didn't know what to say to our people. They had backed us up, and we had let them down. It was a desolate moment. I saw, all of us saw, that the court was leaning against us. I remember telling a group of those working closest with me to spread in the Negro community the message, "We must have the faith that things will work out somehow, that God will make a way for us when there seems no way." It was about noontime, I remember, when Rex Thomas of the Associated Press rushed over to where I was sitting and told me of the news flash that the U.S. Supreme Court had declared that bus segregation in Montgomery was unconstitutional. It had literally been the darkest hour before the dawn.
Playboy:
 You and your followers were criticized, after your arrest for participating in the boycott, for accepting bail and leaving jail. Do you feel, in retrospect, that you did the right thing?
King:
 No; I think it was a mistake, a tactical error for me to have left jail, by accepting bail, after being indicted along with 125 others, mainly drivers of our car pool, under an old law of doubtful constitutionality, an "antiboycott" ordinance. I should have stayed in prison. It would have nationally dramatized and deepened our movement even earlier, and it would have more quickly aroused and keened America's conscience.
Playboy:
 Do you feel you've been guilty of any comparable errors in judgment since then?
King:
 Yes, I do—in Albany, Georgia, in 1962. If I had that to do again, I would guide that community's Negro leadership differently than I did. 
The mistake I made there was to protest against segregation generally rather than against a single and distinct facet of it. Our protest was so vague that we got nothing, and the people were left very depressed and in despair.
 It would have been much better to have concentrated upon integrating the buses or the lunch counters. One victory of this kind would have been symbolic, would have galvanized support and boosted morale. But I don't mean that our work in Albany ended in failure. The Negro people there straightened up their bent backs; you can't ride a man's back unless it's bent. Also, thousands of Negroes registered to vote who never had voted before, and because of the expanded Negro vote in the next election for governor of Georgia—which pitted a moderate candidate against a rabid segregationist—Georgia elected its first governor who had pledged to respect and enforce the law impartially. And what we learned from our mistakes in Albany helped our later campaigns in other cities to be more effective. We have never since scattered our efforts in a general attack on segregation, but have focused upon specific, symbolic objectives.
Playboy:
 Can you recall any other mistakes you've made in leading the movement?
King:
 Well, the most pervasive mistake I have made was in believing that because our cause was just, we could be sure that the white ministers of the South, once their Christian consciences were challenged, would rise to our aid. I felt that white ministers would take our cause to the white power structures. I ended up, of course, chastened and disillusioned. As our movement unfolded, and direct appeals were made to white ministers, most folded their hands—and some even took stands against us.
Playboy:
 Their stated reason for refusing to help was that it was not the proper role of the church to "intervene in secular affairs." Do you disagree with this view?
King:
 Most emphatically. 
The essence of the Epistles of Paul is that Christians should rejoice at being deemed worthy to suffer for what they believe.
 The projection of a social gospel, in my opinion, is the true witness of a Christian life. This is the meaning of the true ekklesia—the inner, spiritual church. The church once changed society. It was then a thermostat of society. But today I feel that too much of the church is merely a thermometer, which measures rather than molds popular opinion.
Playboy:
 Are you speaking of the church in general—or the white church in particular?
King:
 The white church, I'm sorry to say. Its leadership has greatly disappointed me. Let me hasten to say there are some outstanding exceptions. As one whose Christian roots go back through three generations of ministers—my father, grandfather and great-grandfather—I will remain true to the church as long as I live. But the laxity of the white church collectively has caused me to weep tears of love. There cannot be deep disappointment without deep love. Time and again in my travels, as I have seen the outward beauty of white churches, I have had to ask myself, "What kind of people worship there? Who is their God? Is their God the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and is their Savior the Savior who hung on the cross at Golgotha? Where were their voices when a black race took upon itself the cross of protest against man's injustice to man? Where were their voices when defiance and hatred were called for by white men who sat in these very churches?"As the Negro struggles against grave injustice, most white churchmen offer pious irrelevancies and sanctimonious trivialities. As you say, they claim that the gospel of Christ should have no concern with social issues. Yet white churchgoers, who insist that they are Christians, practice segregation as rigidly in the house of God as they do in movie-houses. Too much of the white church is timid and ineffectual, and some of it is shrill in its defense of bigotry and prejudice. In most communities, the spirit of status quo is endorsed by the churches.
My personal disillusionment with the church began when I was thrust into the leadership of the bus protest in Montgomery. I was confident that the white ministers, priests and rabbis of the South would prove strong allies in our just cause. But some became open adversaries, some cautiously shrank from the issue, and others hid behind silence. My optimism about help from the white church was shattered; and on too many occasions since, my hopes for the white church have been dashed. There are many signs that the judgment of God is upon the church as never before. Unless the early sacrificial spirit is recaptured, I am very much afraid that today's Christian church will lose its authenticity, forfeit the loyalty of millions, and we will see the Christian church dismissed as a social club with no meaning or effectiveness for our time, as a form without substance, as salt without savor. The real tragedy, though, is not Martin Luther King's disillusionment with the church—for I am sustained by its spiritual blessings as a minister of the gospel with a lifelong commitment; the tragedy is that in my travels. I meet young people of all races whose disenchantment with the church has soured into outright disgust.
Playboy:
 Do you feel that the Negro church has come any closer to "the projection of a social gospel" in its commitment to the cause?
King:
 I must say that when my Southern Christian Leadership Conference began its work in Birmingham, we encountered numerous Negro church reactions that had to be overcome. Negro ministers were among other Negro leaders who felt they were being pulled into something that they had not helped to organize. This is almost always a problem. Negro community unity was the first requisite if our goals were to be realized. I talked with many groups, including one group of 200 ministers, my theme to them being that a minister cannot preach the glories of heaven while ignoring social conditions in his own community that cause men an earthly hell. I stressed that the Negro minister had particular freedom and independence to provide strong, firm leadership, and I asked how the Negro would ever gain freedom without his minister's guidance, support and inspiration. These ministers finally decided to entrust our movement with their support, and as a result, the role of the Negro church today, by and large, is a glorious example in the history of Christendom. For never in Christian history, within a Christian country, have Christian churches been on the receiving end of such naked brutality and violence as we are witnessing here in America today. Not since the days of the Christians in the catacombs has God's house, as a symbol, weathered such attack as the Negro churches.
I shall never forget the grief and bitterness I felt on that terrible September morning when a bomb blew out the lives of those four little, innocent girls sitting in their Sunday-school class in the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham. I think of how a woman cried out, crunching through broken glass, "My God, we're not even safe in church!" I think of how that explosion blew the face of Jesus Christ from a stained-glass window. It was symbolic of how sin and evil had blotted out the life of Christ. I can remember thinking that if men were this bestial, was it all worth it? Was there any hope? Was there any way out?
Playboy:
 Do you still feel this way?
King:
 No, time has healed the wounds—and buoyed me with the inspiration of another moment which I shall never forget: when I saw with my own eyes over 3000 young Negro boys and girls, totally unarmed, leave Birmingham's 16th Street Baptist Church to march to a prayer meeting—ready to pit nothing but the power of their bodies and souls against Bull Connor's police dogs, clubs and fire hoses. When they refused Connor's bellowed order to turn back, he whirled and shouted to his men to turn on the hoses. It was one of the most fantastic events of the Birmingham story that these Negroes, many of them on their knees, stared, unafraid and unmoving, at Connor's men with the hose nozzles in their hands. Then, slowly the Negroes stood up and advanced, and Connor's men fell back as though hypnotized, as the Negroes marched on past to hold their prayer meeting. I saw there, I felt there, for the first time, the pride and the power of nonviolence.
Another time I will never forget was one Saturday night, late, when my brother telephoned me in Atlanta from Birmingham—that city which some call "Bombingham"—which I had just left. He told me that a bomb had wrecked his home, and that another bomb, positioned to exert its maximum force upon the motel room in which I had been staying, had injured several people. My brother described the terror in the streets as Negroes, furious at the bombings, fought whites. Then, behind his voice, I heard a rising chorus of beautiful singing: "We shall overcome." Tears came into my eyes that at such a tragic moment, my race still could sing its hope and faith.
Playboy:
 We Shall Overcome has become the unofficial song and slogan of the civil rights movement. Do you consider such inspirational anthems important to morale?
King:
 In a sense, songs are the soul of a movement. Consider, in World War Two, Praise the Lord and Pass the Ammunition, and in World War One, Over There and Tipperary, and during the Civil War, Battle Hymn of the Republic and John Brown's Body. A Negro song anthology would include sorrow songs, shouts for joy, battle hymns, anthems. Since slavery, the Negro has sung throughout his struggle in America. Steal Away and Go Down, Moses were the songs of faith and inspiration which were sung on the plantations. For the same reasons the slaves sang, Negroes today sing freedom songs, for we, too, are in bondage. We sing out our determination that "We shall overcome, black and white together, we shall overcome someday." I should also mention a song parody that I enjoyed very much which the Negroes sang during our campaign in Albany, Georgia. It goes: "I'm comin', I'm comin'/And my head ain't bendin' low/I'm walkin' tall, I'm talkin' strong/I'm America's New Black Joe."
Playboy:
 Your detractors in the Negro community often refer to you snidely as "De Lawd" and "Booker T. King." What's your reaction to this sort of Uncle Tom label?
King:
 I hear some of those names, but my reaction to them is never emotional. I don't think you can be in public life without being called bad names. As Lincoln said, "If I answered all criticism, I'd have time for nothing else." But with regard to both of the names you mentioned, I've always tried to be what I call militantly nonviolent. I don't believe that anyone could seriously accuse me of not being totally committed to the breakdown of segregation.
Playboy:
 What do you mean by "militantly nonviolent"?King:
 I mean to say that a strong man must be militant as well as moderate. He must be a realist as well as an idealist. If I am to merit the trust invested in me by some of my race, I must be both of these things. This is why nonviolence is a powerful as well as a just weapon. If you confront a man who has long been cruelly misusing you, and say, "Punish me, if you will; I do not deserve it, but I will accept it, so that the world will know I am right and you are wrong," then you wield a powerful and a just weapon. This man, your oppressor, is automatically morally defeated, and if he has any conscience, he is ashamed. Wherever this weapon is used in a manner that stirs a community's, or a nation's, anguished conscience, then the pressure of public opinion becomes an ally in your just cause.
Another of the major strengths of the nonviolent weapon is its strange power to transform and transmute the individuals who subordinate themselves to its disciplines, investing them with a cause that is larger than themselves. They become, for the first time, somebody, and they have, for the first time, the courage to be free. When the Negro finds the courage to be free, he faces dogs and guns and clubs and fire hoses totally unafraid, and the white men with those dogs, guns, clubs and fire hoses see that the Negro they have traditionally called "boy" has become a man.
We should not forget that, although nonviolent direct action did not originate in America, it found a natural home where it has been a revered tradition to rebel against injustice. This great weapon, which we first tried out in Montgomery during the bus boycott, has been further developed throughout the South over the past decade, until by today it has become instrumental in the greatest mass-action crusade for freedom that has occurred in America since the Revolutionary War. The effectiveness of this weapon's ability to dramatize, in the world's eyes, an oppressed peoples' struggle for justice is evident in the fact that of 1963's top ten news stories after the assassination of President Kennedy and the events immediately connected with it, nine stories dealt with one aspect or another of the Negro struggle.
Playboy:
 Several of those stories dealt with your own nonviolent campaigns against segregation in various Southern cities, where you and your followers have been branded "rabble-rousers" and "outside agitators." Do you feel you've earned these labels?
King:
 
Wherever the early Christians appeared, spreading Christ's doctrine of love, the resident power structure accused them of being "disturbers of the peace" and "outside agitators." But the small Christian band continued to teach and exemplify love, convinced that they were "a colony of heaven" on this earth who were missioned to obey not man but God. If those of us who employ nonviolent direct action today are dismissed by our white brothers as "rabble-rousers" and "outside agitators," if they refuse to support our nonviolent efforts and goals, we can be assured that the summer of 1965 will be no less long and hot than the summer of 1964.
Our white brothers must be made to understand that nonviolence is a weapon fabricated of love. It is a sword that heals.
 Our nonviolent direct-action program has as its objective not the creation of tensions, but the surfacing of tensions already present. We set out to precipitate a crisis situation that must open the door to negotiation. I am not afraid of the words "crisis" and "tension." I deeply oppose violence, but constructive crisis and tension are necessary for growth. Innate in all life, and all growth, is tension. Only in death is there an absence of tension. To cure injustices, you must expose them before the light of human conscience and the bar of public opinion, regardless of whatever tensions that exposure generates. Injustices to the Negro must be brought out into the open where they cannot be evaded.
Playboy:
 Is this the sole aim of your Southern Christian Leadership Conference?
King:
 We have five aims: first, to stimulate nonviolent, direct, mass action to expose and remove the barriers of segregation and discrimination; second, to disseminate the creative philosophy and techniques of nonviolence through local and area workshops; third, to secure the right and unhampered use of the ballot for every citizen; fourth, to achieve full citizenship rights, and the total integration of the Negro into American life; and fifth, to reduce the cultural lag through our citizenship training program.
Playboy:
 How does S.C.L.C. select the cities where nonviolent campaigns and demonstrations are to be staged?
King:
 The operational area of S.C.L.C. is the entire South, where we have affiliated organizations in some 85 cities. Our major campaigns have been conducted only in cities where a request for our help comes from one of these affiliate organizations, and only when we feel that intolerable conditions in that community might be ameliorated with our help. I will give you an example. In Birmingham, one of our affiliate organizations is the Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights, which was organized by the Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth, a most energetic and indomitable man. It was he who set out to end Birmingham's racism, challenging the terrorist reign of Bull Connor. S.C.L.C. watched admiringly as the small Shuttlesworth-led organization fought in the Birmingham courts and with boycotts. Shuttlesworth was jailed several times, his home and church were bombed, and still he did not back down. His defiance of Birmingham's racism inspired and encouraged Negroes throughout the South. Then, at a May 1962 board meeting of the S.C.L.C. in Chattanooga, the first discussions began that later led to our joining Shuttlesworth's organization in a massive direct-action campaign to attack Birmingham's segregation.
Playboy:
 One of the highlights of that campaign was your celebrated "Letter from a Birmingham Jail"—written during one of your jail terms for civil disobedience—an eloquent reply to eight Protestant, Catholic and Jewish clergymen who had criticized your activities in Birmingham. Do you feel that subsequent events have justified the sentiments expressed in your letter?
King:
 I would say yes. Two or three important and constructive things have happened which can be at least partially attributed to that letter. By now, nearly a million copies of the letter have been widely circulated in churches of most of the major denominations. It helped to focus greater international attention upon what was happening in Birmingham. And I am sure that without Birmingham, the march on Washington wouldn't have been called—which in my mind was one of the most creative steps the Negro struggle has taken. The march on Washington spurred and galvanized the consciences of millions. It gave the American Negro a new national and international stature. The press of the world recorded the story as nearly a quarter of a million Americans, white and black, assembled in grandeur as a testimonial to the Negro's determination to achieve freedom in this generation.
It was also the image of Birmingham which, to a great extent, helped to bring the Civil Rights Bill into being in 1963. Previously, President Kennedy had decided not to propose it that year, feeling that it would so arouse the South that it would meet a bottleneck. But Birmingham, and subsequent developments, caused him to reorder his legislative priorities.
One of these decisive developments was our last major campaign before the enactment of the Civil Rights Act—in St. Augustine, Florida. We received a plea for help from Dr. Robert Hayling, the leader of the St. Augustine movement. St. Augustine, America's oldest city, and one of the most segregated cities in America, was a stronghold of the Ku Klux Klan and the John Birch Society. Such things had happened as Klansmen abducting four Negroes and beating them unconscious with clubs, brass knuckles, ax handles and pistol butts. Dr. Hayling's home had been shot up with buckshot, three Negro homes had been bombed and several Negro night clubs shotgunned. A Negro's car had been destroyed by fire because his child was one of the six Negro children permitted to attend white schools. And the homes of two of the Negro children in the white schools had been burned down. Many Negroes had been fired from jobs that some had worked on for 28 years because they were somehow connected with the demonstrations. Police had beaten and arrested Negroes for picketing, marching and singing freedom songs. Many Negroes had served up to 90 days in jail for demonstrating against segregation, and four teenagers had spent six months in jail for picketing. Then, on February seventh of last year, Dr. Hayling's home was shotgunned a second time, with his pregnant wife and two children barely escaping death; the family dog was killed while standing behind the living-room door. So S.C.L.C. decided to join in last year's celebration of St. Augustine's gala 400th birthday as America's oldest city—by converting it into a nonviolent battleground. This is just what we did.
Playboy:
 But isn't it true, Dr. King, that during this and other "nonviolent" demonstrations, violence has occurred—sometimes resulting in hundreds of casualties on both sides?
King:
 Yes, in part that is true. But what is always overlooked is how few people, in ratio to the numbers involved, have been casualties. An army on maneuvers, against no enemy, suffers casualties, even fatalities. A minimum of whites have been casualties in demonstrations solely because our teaching of nonviolence disciplines our followers not to fight even if attacked. A minimum of Negroes are casualties for two reasons: Their white oppressors know that the world watches their actions, and for the first time they are being faced by Negroes who display no fear.
Playboy:
 It was shortly after your St. Augustine campaign last summer, as you mentioned, that the Civil Rights Bill was passed—outlawing many of the injustices against which you had been demonstrating. Throughout the South, predictably, it was promptly anathematized as unconstitutional and excessive in its concessions to Negro demands. How do you feel about it?
King:
 I don't feel that the Civil Rights Act has gone far enough in some of its coverage. In the first place, it needs a stronger voting section. You will never have a true democracy until you can eliminate all restrictions. We need to do away with restrictive literacy tests. I've seen too much of native intelligence to accept the validity of these tests as a criterion for voting qualifications. Our nation needs a universal method of voter registration—one man, one vote, literally. Second, there is a pressing, urgent need to give the attorney general the right to initiate Federal suits in any area of civil rights denial. Third, we need a strong and strongly enforced fair-housing section such as many states already have. President Kennedy initiated the present housing law, but it is not broad enough. Fourth, we need an extension of FEPC to grapple more effectively with the problems of poverty. Not only are millions of Negroes caught in the clutches of poverty, but millions of poor whites as well. And fifth, conclusive and effective measures must be taken immediately at the Federal level to curb the worsening reign of terror in the South—which is aided and abetted, as everyone knows, by state and local law-enforcement agencies. It's getting so that anybody can kill a Negro and get away with it in the South, as long as they go through the motions of a jury trial. There is very little chance of conviction from lily-white Southern jurors. It must be fixed so that in the case of interracial murder, the Federal Government can prosecute.
Playboy:
 Your dissatisfaction with the Civil Rights Act reflects that of most other Negro spokesmen. According to recent polls, however, many whites resent this attitude, calling the Negro "ungrateful" and "unrealistic" to press his demands for more.
King:
 This is a litany to those of us in this field. "What more will the Negro want?" "What will it take to make these demonstrations end?" Well, I would like to reply with another rhetorical question: Why do white people seem to find it so difficult to understand that the Negro is sick and tired of having reluctantly parceled out to him those rights and privileges which all others receive upon birth or entry in America? I never cease to wonder at the amazing presumption of much of white society, assuming that they have the right to bargain with the Negro for his freedom. This continued arrogant ladling out of pieces of the rights of citizenship has begun to generate a fury in the Negro. Even so, he is not pressing for revenge, or for conquest, or to gain spoils, or to enslave, or even to marry the sisters of those who have injured him. What the Negro wants—and will not stop until he gets—is absolute and unqualified freedom and equality here in this land of his birth, and not in Africa or in some imaginary state. The Negro no longer will be tolerant of anything less than his due right and heritage. He is pursuing only that which he knows is honorably his. He knows that he is right.
But every Negro leader since the turn of the century has been saying this in one form or another. It is because we have been so long and so conscientiously ignored by the dominant white society that the situation has now reached such crisis proportions. Few white people, even today, will face the clear fact that the very future and destiny of this country are tied up in what answer will be given to the Negro. And that answer must be given soon.
Playboy:
 
Relatively few dispute the justness of the struggle to eradicate racial injustice, but many whites feel that the Negro should be more patient, that only the passage of time—perhaps generations—will bring about the sweeping changes he demands in traditional attitudes and customs. Do you think this is true?
King:
 No, I do not. I feel that the time is always right to do what is right. Where progress for the Negro in America is concerned, there is a tragic misconception of time among whites. They seem to cherish a strange, irrational notion that something in the very flow of time will cure all ills. In truth, time itself is only neutral. Increasingly, I feel that time has been used destructively by people of ill will much more than it has been used constructively by those of good will.
If I were to select a timetable for the equalization of human rights, it would be the intent of the "all deliberate speed" specified in the historic 1954 Supreme Court decision. But what has happened? A Supreme Court decision was met, and balked, with utter defiance. Ten years later, in most areas of the South, less than one percent of the Negro children have been integrated in schools, and in some of the deepest South, not even one tenth of one percent. Approximately 25 percent of employable Negro youth, for another example, are presently unemployed. Though many would prefer not to, we must face the fact that progress for the Negro—to which white "moderates" like to point in justifying gradualism—has been relatively insignificant, particularly in terms of the Negro masses. What little progress has been made—and that includes the Civil Rights Act—has applied primarily to the middle-class Negro. Among the masses, especially in the Northern ghettos, the situation remains about the same, and for some it is worse.
Playboy:
 It would seem that much could be done at the local, state and Federal levels to remedy these inequities. In your own contact with them, have you found Government officials—in the North, if not in the South—to be generally sympathetic, understanding, and receptive to appeals for reform?
King:
 On the contrary, I have been dismayed at the degree to which abysmal ignorance seems to prevail among many state, city and even Federal officials on the whole question of racial justice and injustice. Particularly, I have found that these men seriously—and dangerously—underestimate the explosive mood of the Negro and the gravity of the crisis. Even among those whom I would consider to be both sympathetic and sincerely intellectually committed, there is a lamentable lack of understanding. But this white failure to comprehend the depth and dimension of the Negro problem is far from being peculiar to Government officials. Apart from bigots and backlashers, it seems to be a malady even among those whites who like to regard themselves as "enlightened." I would especially refer to those who counsel, "Wait!" and to those who say that they sympathize with our goals but cannot condone our methods of direct-action pursuit of those goals. I wonder at men who dare to feel that they have some paternalistic right to set the timetable for another man's liberation. Over the past several years, I must say, I have been gravely disappointed with such white "moderates." I am often inclined to think that they are more of a stumbling block to the Negro's progress than the White Citizen's Counciler or the Ku Klux Klanner.
Playboy:
 Haven't both of these segregationist societies been implicated in connection with plots against your life?
King:
 It's difficult to trace the authorship of these death threats. I seldom go through a day without one. Some are telephoned anonymously to my office; others are sent—unsigned, of course—through the mails. Drew Pearson wrote not long ago about one group of unknown affiliation that was committed to assassinate not only me but also Chief Justice Warren and President Johnson. And not long ago, when I was about to visit in Mississippi, I received some very urgent calls from Negro leaders in Mobile, who had been told by a very reliable source that a sort of guerrilla group led by a retired major in the area of Lucyville, Mississippi, was plotting to take my life during the visit. I was strongly urged to cancel the trip, but when I thought about it, I decided that I had no alternative but to go on into Mississippi.
Playboy:
 Why?
King:
 Because I have a job to do. If I were constantly worried about death, I couldn't function. After a while, if your life is more or less constantly in peril, you come to a point where you accept the possibility philosophically. I must face the fact, as all others in positions of leadership must do, that America today is an extremely sick nation, and that something could well happen to me at any time. I feel, though, that my cause is so right, so moral, that if I should lose my life, in some way it would aid the cause.
Playboy:
 That statement exemplifies the total dedication to the civil rights movement for which you are so widely admired—but also denounced as an "extremist" by such segregationist spokesmen as Alabama's Governor Wallace. Do you accept this identification?
King:
 It disturbed me when I first heard it. But when I began to consider the true meaning of the word, I decided that perhaps I would like to think of myself as an extremist—in the light of the spirit which made Jesus an extremist for love. If it sounds as though I am comparing myself to the Savior, let me remind you that all who honor themselves with the claim of being "Christians" should compare themselves to Jesus. Thus I consider myself an extremist for that brotherhood of man which Paul so nobly expressed: "There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus." Love is the only force on earth that can be dispensed or received in an extreme manner, without any qualifications, without any harm to the giver or to the receiver.
Playboy:
 Perhaps. But the kind of extremism for which you've been criticized has to do not with love, but with your advocacy of willful disobedience of what you consider to be "unjust laws." Do you feel you have the right to pass judgment on and defy the law—nonviolently or otherwise?
King:
 Yes—morally, if not legally. For there are two kinds of laws: man's and God's. A man-made code that squares with the moral law, or the law of God, is a just law. But a man-made code that is inharmonious with the moral law is an unjust law. And an unjust law, as St. Augustine said, is no law at all. Thus a law that is unjust is morally null and void, and must be defied until it is legally null and void as well. Let us not forget, in the memories of 6,000,000 who died, that everything Adolf Hitler did in Germany was "legal," and that everything the Freedom Fighters in Hungary did was "illegal." In spite of that, I am sure that I would have aided and comforted my Jewish brothers if I had lived in Germany during Hitler's reign, as some Christian priests and ministers did do, often at the cost of their lives. And if I lived now in a Communist country where principles dear to the Christian's faith are suppressed, I know that I would openly advocate defiance of that country's antireligious laws—again, just as some Christian priests and ministers are doing today behind the Iron Curtain. Right here in America today there are white ministers, priests and rabbis who have shed blood in the support of our struggle against a web of human injustice, much of which is supported by immoral man-made laws.
Playboy:
 Segregation laws?
King:
 Specifically, court injunctions. Though the rights of the First Amendment guarantee that any citizen or group of citizens may engage in peaceable assembly, the South has seized upon the device of invoking injunctions to block our direct-action civil rights demonstrations. When you get set to stage a nonviolent demonstration, the city simply secures an injunction to cease and desist. Southern courts are well known for "sitting on" this type of case; conceivably a two- or three-year delay could be incurred. At first we found this to be a highly effective subterfuge against us. We first experienced it in Montgomery when, during the bus boycott, our car pool was outlawed by an injunction. An injunction also destroyed the protest movement in Talladega, Alabama. Another injunction outlawed the oldest civil rights organization, the NAACP, from the whole state of Alabama. Still another injunction thwarted our organization's efforts in Albany, Georgia. Then in Birmingham, we felt that we had to take a stand and disobey a court injunction against demonstrations, knowing the consequences and being prepared to meet them—or the unjust law would break our movement.
We did not take this step hastily or rashly. We gave the matter intense thought and prayer before deciding that the right thing was being done. And when we made our decision, I announced our plan to the press, making it clear that we were not anarchists advocating lawlessness, but that in good conscience we could not comply with a misuse of the judicial process in order to perpetuate injustice and segregation. When our plan was made known, it bewildered and immobilized our segregationist opponents. We felt that our decision had been morally as well as tactically right—in keeping with God's law as well as with the spirit of our nonviolent direct-action program.
Playboy:
 If it's morally right for supporters of civil rights to violate segregation laws which they consider unjust, why is it wrong for segregationists to resist the enforcement of integration laws which they consider unjust?
King:
 Because segregation, as even the segregationists know in their hearts, is morally wrong and sinful. If it weren't, the white South would not be haunted as it is by a deep sense of guilt for what it has done to the Negro—guilt for patronizing him, degrading him, brutalizing him, depersonalizing him, thingifying him; guilt for lying to itself. This is the source of the schizophrenia that the South will suffer until it goes through its crisis of conscience.
Playboy:
 Is this crisis imminent?
King:
 It may not come next week or next year, but it is certainly more imminent in the South than in the North. If the South is honest with itself, it may well outdistance the North in the improvement of race relations.
Playboy:
 Why?
King:
 Well, the Northern white, having had little actual contact with the Negro, is devoted to an abstract principle of cordial interracial relations. The North has long considered, in a theoretical way, that it supported brotherhood and the equality of man, but the truth is that deep prejudices and discriminations exist in hidden and subtle and covert disguises. The South's prejudice and discrimination, on the other hand, has been applied against the Negro in obvious, open, overt and glaring forms—which make the problem easier to get at. The Southern white man has the advantage of far more actual contact with Negroes than the Northerner. A major problem is that this contact has been paternalistic and poisoned by the myth of racial superiority.
Playboy:
 Many Southern whites, supported by the "research" of several Southern anthropologists, vow that white racial superiority—and Negro inferiority—are a biological fact.
King:
 You may remember that during the rise of Nazi Germany, a rash of books by respected German scientists appeared, supporting the master-race theory. This utterly ignorant fallacy has been so thoroughly refuted by the social scientists, as well as by medical science, that any individual who goes on believing it is standing in an absolutely misguided and diminishing circle. The American Anthropological Association has unanimously adopted a resolution repudiating statements that Negroes are biologically, in innate mental ability or in any other way inferior to whites. The collective weight and authority of world scientists are embodied in a Unesco report on races which flatly refutes the theory of innate superiority among any ethnic group. And as far as Negro "blood" is concerned, medical science finds the same four blood types in all race groups.
When the Southern white finally accepts this simple fact—as he eventually must—beautiful results will follow, for we will have come a long way toward transforming his master-servant perspective into a person-to-person perspective. The Southern white man, discovering the "nonmyth" Negro, exhibits all the passion of the new convert, seeing the black man as a man among men for the first time. The South, if it is to survive economically, must make dramatic changes, and these must include the Negro. People of good will in the South, who are the vast majority, have the challenge to be open and honest, and to turn a deaf ear to the shrill cries of the irresponsible few on the lunatic fringe. I think and pray they will.
Playboy:
 Whom do you include among "the irresponsible few"?
King:
 I include those who preach racism and commit violence; and those who, in various cities where we have sought to peacefully demonstrate, have sought to goad Negroes into violence as an excuse for violent mass reprisal. In Birmingham, for example, on the day it was flashed about the world that a "peace pact" had been signed between the moderate whites and the Negroes, Birmingham's segregationist forces reacted with fury, swearing vengeance against the white businessmen who had "betrayed" them by negotiating with Negroes. On Saturday night, just outside of Birmingham, a Ku Klux Klan meeting was held, and that same night, as I mentioned earlier, a bomb ripped the home of my brother, the Reverend A. D. King, and another bomb was planted where it would have killed or seriously wounded anyone in the motel room which I had been occupying. Both bombings had been timed just as Birmingham's bars closed on Saturday midnight, as the streets filled with thousands of Negroes who were not trained in nonviolence, and who had been drinking. Just as whoever planted the bombs had wanted to happen, fighting began, policemen were stoned by Negroes, cars were overturned and fires started.
Playboy:
 Were none of your S.C.L.C. workers involved?
King:
 If they had been, there would have been no riot, for we believe that only just means may be used in seeking a just end. We believe that lasting gains can be made—and they have been made—only by practicing what we preach: a policy of nonviolent, peaceful protest. The riots, North and South, have involved mobs—not the disciplined, nonviolent, direct-action demonstrators with whom I identify. We do not condone lawlessness, looting and violence committed by the racist or the reckless of any color.
I must say, however, that riots such as have occurred do achieve at least one partially positive effect: They dramatically focus national attention upon the Negro's discontent. Unfortunately, they also give the white majority an excuse, a provocation, to look away from the cause of the riots—the poverty and the deprivation and the degradation of the Negro, especially in the slums and ghettos where the riots occur—and to talk instead of looting, and of the breakdown of law and order. It is never circulated that some of the looters have been white people, similarly motivated by their own poverty. In one riot in a Northern city, aside from the Negroes and Puerto Ricans who were arrested, there were also 158 white people—including mothers stealing food, children's shoes and other necessity items. The poor, white and black, were rebelling together against the establishment.
Playboy:
 Whom do you mean by "the establishment"?
King:
 I mean the white leadership—which I hold as responsible as anyone for the riots, for not removing the conditions that cause them. The deep frustration, the seething desperation of the Negro today is a product of slum housing, chronic poverty, woefully inadequate education and substandard schools. The Negro is trapped in a long and desolate corridor with no exit sign, caught in a vicious socioeconomic vise. And he is ostracized as is no other minority group in America by the evil of oppressive and constricting prejudice based solely upon his color. A righteous man has no alternative but to resist such an evil system. If he does not have the courage to resist nonviolently, then he runs the risk of a violent emotional explosion. As much as I deplore violence, there is one evil that is worse than violence, and that's cowardice. It is still my basic article of faith that social justice can be achieved and democracy advanced only to the degree that there is firm adherence to nonviolent action and resistance in the pursuit of social justice. But America will be faced with the ever-present threat of violence, rioting and senseless crime as long as Negroes by the hundreds of thousands are packed into malodorous, rat-plagued ghettos; as long as Negroes remain smothered by poverty in the midst of an affluent society; as long as Negroes are made to feel like exiles in their own land; as long as Negroes continue to be dehumanized; as long as Negroes see their freedom endlessly delayed and diminished by the head winds of tokenism and small handouts from the white power structure. No nation can suffer any greater tragedy than to cause millions of its citizens to feel that they have no stake in their own society.
Understand that I am trying only to explain the reasons for violence and the threat of violence. Let me say again that by no means and under no circumstance do I condone outbreaks of looting and lawlessness. I feel that every responsible Negro leader must point out, with all possible vigor, that anyone who perpetrates and participates in a riot is immoral as well as impractical—that the use of immoral means will not achieve the moral end of racial justice.
Playboy:
 Whom do you consider the most responsible Negro leaders?
King:
 Well, I would say that Roy Wilkins of the NAACP has proved time and again to be a very articulate spokesman for the rights of Negroes. He is a most able administrator and a dedicated organization man with personal resources that have helped the whole struggle. Another outstanding man is Whitney Young Jr. of the National Urban League, an extremely able social scientist. He has developed a meaningful balance between militancy and moderation. James Farmer of CORE is another courageous, dedicated and thoughtful civil rights spokesman. I have always been impressed by how he maintains a freshness in his awareness of the meaning of the whole quest for freedom. And John Lewis of SNCC symbolizes the kind of strong militancy, courage and creativity that our youth have brought to the civil rights struggle. But I feel that the greatest leader of these times that the Negro has produced is A. Philip Randolph, president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, whose total integrity, depth of dedication and caliber of statesmanship set an example for us all.
Playboy:
 Many whites feel that last summer's riots occurred because leadership is no longer being offered by the men you named.
King:
 The riots we have had are minute compared to what would have happened without their effective and restraining leadership. I am convinced that unless the nonviolent philosophy had emerged and taken hold among Negroes, North and South, by today the streets of dozens of American communities would have flowed with blood. Hundreds of cities might now be mourning countless dead, of both races, were it not for the nonviolent influence which has given political surgeons the time and opportunity to boldly and safely excise some aspects of the peril of violence that faced this nation in the summers of 1963 and 1964. The whole world has seen what happened in communities such as Harlem, Brooklyn, Rochester, Philadelphia, Newark, St. Petersburg and Birmingham, where this emergency operation was either botched or not performed at all.
Playboy:
 Still, doesn't the very fact that riots have occurred tend to indicate that many Negroes are no longer heeding the counsels of nonviolence?
King:
 Not the majority, by any means. But it is true that some Negroes subscribe to a deep feeling that the tactic of nonviolence is not producing enough concrete victories. We have seen, in our experience, that nonviolence thrives best in a climate of justice. Violence grows to the degree that injustice prevails; the more injustice in a given community, the more violence, or potential violence, smolders in that community. I can give you a clear example. If you will notice, there have been fewer riots in the South. The reason for this is that the Negro in the South can see some visible, concrete victories in civil rights. Last year, the police would have been called if he sat down at a community lunch counter. This year, if he chooses to sit at that counter, he is served. More riots have occurred in the North because the fellow in Harlem, to name one Northern ghetto, can't see any victories. He remains throttled, as he has always been, by vague, intangible economic and social deprivations. Until the concerned power structures begin to grapple creatively with these fundamental inequities, it will be difficult for violence to be eliminated. The longer our people see no progress, or halting progress, the easier it will be for them to yield to the counsels of hatred and demagoguery.
Last updated
: 12/23/2017, 7:26 PM MST
January
Marqo 2 Fresh - Rockstar/Trapstar (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - Designer Drugz (2015)
February
IZA Lach - Flower in the Jungle (2014)
IZA Lach - P A I N K I L L E R (2014)
brandUn DeShay - Volume: One! For the Money (2008)
Tori Kelly - Handmade Songs by Tori Kelly (2012)
Mobb Deep - The Infamous (1995)
Odd Future - The Odd Future Tape (2008)
The Civil Wars - Poison & Wine EP (2009)
I Smell Panties - I Smell Panties EP (2008)
Shawty Lo - I'm da Man 2 (2007)
Meghan Trainor - Title (2015)
The Super D3Shay - The Super D3Shay EP (2009)
The Jet Age of Tomorrow - Can I Hold Your Hand?! (2010)
Lucy Hale - Road Between (2014)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. Lil Dude) - "Hoodrich DC Freestyle" (2017)
Plies - 100% Real Nigga (2005)
Three 6 Mafia - Live by Yo Rep (B.O.N.E. Dis) (1995)
The Black Keys - El Camino (2011)
Lil Meta - So Icey Grinch (2008)
Lil Meta - Meta Myers (2010)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - MONY POWR RSPT: Designer and Drugz Edition (2015)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. Skippa da Flippa) - "Still the Same Nigga" (2017)
Alyson Stoner - While You Were Sleeping (2016)
Warren G - Regulate... G Funk Era (1994)
Tori Kelly - Foreword (2013)
brandUn DeShay - Volume: Two! For the Show (2009)
March
The Civil Wars - Barton Hollow (2011)
brandUn DeShay - Your Favorite! MixTape (2009)
Shai - ...If I Ever Fall in Love (1992)
Bone Thugs-N-Harmony - Creepin on ah Come Up (1994)
Aaliyah - Age Ain't Nothing But a Number (1994)
Groove Theory - Groove Theory (1995)
Waka Flocka Flame - Salute Me or Shoot Me (2009)
The Civil Wars - The Civil Wars (2013)
Immature - On Our Worst Behavior (1992)
Dr. Dre - The Chronic (1992)
Aaliyah - One in a Million (1996)
The Notorious B.I.G. - Ready to Die (1994)
The Notorious B.I.G. - "Who Shot Ya?" (1995)
The Notorious B.I.G. - Life After Death (1997)
Jurrarri - Jurrarri tha Kid, Pt. 3: Yellow Diamonds (2009)
Meghan Trainor - Thank You (2016)
Earl Sweatshirt - Earl (2010)
Earl Sweatshirt - I Don't Like Shit, I Don't Go Outside (2015)
Alyson Stoner - Beat the System (2011)
Tyler, The Creator - "Fuck Santa" (2008)
brandUn DeShay - "Imaginary Weekend With Her" (2009)
Brandon Hines - Love Music... Falling In, Falling Out (2006)
Queen Latifah - Black Reign (1993)
Kiiara - low kii savage (2016)
Kacy Hill - Bloo (2015)
Kacy Hill - "Lion" (2016)
Tori Kelly - "Don't You Worry 'Bout a Thing" (2016)
Ariana Grande - Christmas & Chill (2015)
Ice Cube - AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted (1990)
Usher - Usher (1994)
2Pac - Me Against the World (1995)
Bone Thugs-N-Harmony - E. 1999 Eternal (1995)
Total Devastation - Total Devastation (1993)
The Underachievers - The Lords of Flatbush (2013)
A Tribe Called Quest - People's Instinctive Travels and the Paths of Rhythm (1990)
A Tribe Called Quest - The Low End Theory (1991)
Tyler, The Creator - Bastard (2009)
Immature - Playtyme Is Over (1994)
The Black Keys - Turn Blue (2014)
Frank Ocean - Endless (2016)
April
Bruno Mars - 24K Magic (2016)
Kendrick Lamar - "HUMBLE." (2017)
Kendrick Lamar - "The Heart Part 4" (2017)
Kendrick Lamar - untitled unmastered. (2016)
Drake - More Life (2017)
Immature - We Got It (1995)
Ashanti - Ashanti (2002)
Usher - 8701 (2001)
Usher - Confessions (2004)
A$AP Mob - Cozy Tapes Vol. 1: Friends - (2016)
Raekwon - Only Built 4 Cuban Linx... (1995)
Smif-N-Wessun - Dah Shinin' (1995)
Nas - Illmatic (1994)
Cierra Ramirez - Discreet (2016)
Flatbush ZOMBiES - 3001: A Laced Odyssey (2016)
Kilo Kish - Homeschool (2012)
Trey Songz - Tremaine (2017)
Syd - Fin (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan & Jose Guapo - Million Dollar Plugs (2015)
Trey Songz - Ready (2009)
A$AP Rocky - LONG.LIVE.A$AP (2013)
Michael Jackson - Thriller (1982)
Trey Songz - Passion, Pain & Pleasure (2010)
Matt Martians - The Drum Chord Theory (2017)
Trey Songz - Chapter V (2012)
Michael Jackson - Off the Wall (1979)
Michael Jackson - Bad (1987)
Michael Jackson - Dangerous (1991)
Flatbush ZOMBiES - BetterOffDEAD (2013)
Rebecca Black - "Foolish" (2017)
J. Cole - 4 Your Eyez Only (2016)
Tyler, The Creator - Goblin (2011)
brandUn DeShay - "It's Ok Pt. 2" (2015)
May
Bryson Tiller - T R A P S O U L (2015)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan & Danny Wolf - HoodWolf (2017)
Alessia Cara - Know-It-All (2015)
Calvin Harris (feat. Young Thug, Pharrell Williams, and Ariana Grande) - "Heatstroke" (2017)
Louisa Johnson - "Best Behaviour" (2017)
Calvin Harris (feat. Migos and Frank Ocean) - "Slide" (2017)
Kygo (feat. Selena Gomez) - "It Ain't Me" (2017)
Gorillaz (feat. Popcaan) - "Saturnz Barz" (2017)
CeeLo Green - "Music to My Soul" (2015)
Shyheim - AKA the Rugged Child (1994)
Da Youngsta's - Somethin 4 da Youngsta's (1992)
Kris Kross - Totally Krossed Out (1992)
DrugRixh Pe$o, Diego Dose, Bloody Tito & Hoodrich Pablo Juan - 1'5 (2016)
Hailee Steinfeld - HAIZ (2015)
June
brandUn DeShay - "All That I'm Asking" (2013)
Gucci Mane - Droptopwop (2017)
Sabrina Carpenter - EVOLution (2016)
Sabrina Carpenter - Can't Blame a Girl for Trying (2014)
Sabrina Carpenter - Eyes Wide Open (2015)
Cam - Welcome to Cam Country (2015)
Waka Flocka Flame & Slim Dunkin - Twin Towers (2009)
Miranda Cosgrove - Sparks Fly (2010)
Miranda Cosgrove - About You Now (2009)
Cam - Untamed (2015)
Miranda Cosgrove - High Maintenance (2011)
Black Moon - Enta da Stage (1993)
Anna Wise - The Feminine: Act I (2016)
Tinashe - Amethyst (2015)
Snoop Dogg - Doggystyle (1993)
brandUn DeShay - Volume: Three! To Get Ready (2010)
Kacy Hill - "Like a Woman" (2017)
Bryson Tiller - True to Self (2017)
A$AP Mob (feat. A$AP Rocky, Playboi Carti, Quavo, Lil Uzi Vert, and Frank Ocean) - "RAF" (2017)
Da Youngsta's - The Aftermath (1993)
Da Youngsta's - No Mercy (1994)
Earl Sweatshirt - Doris (2013)
Onyx - Bacdafucup (1993)
Onyx - All We Got Iz Us (1995)
Pete Rock & C.L. Smooth - Mecca and the Soul Brother (1992)
July
AJR (feat. Louisa Johnson) - "Weak (Stay Strong Mix)" (2017)
Jeremih - Jeremih (2009)
The Jet Age of Tomorrow - Journey to the 5th Echelon (2010)
Ariana Grande - Yours Truly (2013)
Sabrina Carpenter - "Why" (2017)
Johnny Cinco & Hoodrich Pablo Juan - Poppi Seed Connect: Da Grand Hu$$le (2015)
J. Cole - 2014 Forest Hills Drive (2014)
J. Cole - "everybody dies" (2016)
Louisa Johnson - "So Good" (2016)
Ariana Grande - My Everything (2014)
Anna Wise - The Feminine: Act II (2017)
All-4-One - All-4-One (1994)
NexXthursday (feat. Quavo and Lil Yachty) - "Sway (Remix)" (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. MadeinTYO) - "B.M.F." (2017)
Arrested Development - 3 Years, 5 Months and 2 Days in the Life Of... (1992)
All-4-One - And the Music Speaks (1995)
Calvin Harris - Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1 (2017)
A$AP Mob (feat. A$AP Nast and Method Man) - "Trillmatic" (2013)
Tyler, The Creator - Flower Boy (2017)
Bloods & Crips - Bangin' on Wax (1993)
RaeLynn - WildHorse (2017)
2 Chainz - Pretty Girls Like Trap Music (2017)
A$AP Rocky - AT.LONG.LAST.A$AP (2015)
Dixie Chicks - Wide Open Spaces (1998)
Mobb Deep - Hell on Earth (1996)
J. Cole - "False Prophets" (2016)
Pete Rock & C.L. Smooth - The Main Ingredient (1994)
Jeru the Damaja - The Sun Rises in the East (1994)
Lost Boyz - Legal Drug Money (1996)
Shai - Blackface (1995)
Cypress Hill - Cypress Hill (1991)
Funkdoobiest - Which Doobie U B? (1993)
E-40 - The Mail Man (1993)
JoJo - III. (2015)
Rodney O & Joe Cooley - Fuck New York (1993)
Spice 1 - 187 He Wrote (1993)
Cypress Hill - Black Sunday (1993)
Ne-Yo - Year of the Gentleman (2008)
Bloods & Crips - Bangin' on Wax 2... The Saga Continues (1994)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. Lil Uzi Vert) - "Zoboomafoo (Remix)" (2017)
August
Cypress Hill - Cypress Hill III: Temples of Boom (1995)
Leaders of the New School - A Future Without a Past... (1991)
Leaders of the New School - T.I.M.E. (The Inner Mind's Eye) (1993)
Parliament - Mothership Connection (1975)
21 Savage - Issa Album (2017)
Ol' Dirty Bastard - Return to the 36 Chambers: The Dirty Version (1995)
Method Man - Tical (1994)
GZA - Liquid Swords (1995)
Blacc Zacc & Hoodrich Pablo Juan - Dirty Money Power Respect (2017)
Shyheim - The Lost Generation (1996)
MC Breed - The New Breed (1993)
Ice Cube - Lethal Injection (1993)
Bobby Brown - Don't Be Cruel (1988)
2Pac - Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z... (1993)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - Guerilla Warfare (2015)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - It's Auto Juan in da Building (2015)
Ugly God - The Booty Tape (2017)
Rae Sremmurd - "Perplexing Pegasus" (2017)
Juicy J (feat. Offset) - "Flood Watch" (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - South Dark (2017)
Migo Domingo - War Ready (2015)
Migo Domingo - War Ready 2 (2016)
Bas - Last Winter (2014)
Dixie Chicks - Fly (1999)
Future - FUTURE (2017)
Astrid S - Party's Over (2017)
Ariana Grande - Dangerous Woman (2016)
Marqo 2 Fresh - Rockstar/Trapstar 2 (2017)
Marqo 2 Fresh - Drugs, Sex N Money (2016)
Bebe Rexha - I Don't Wanna Grow Up (2015)
Lauren Alaina - Wildflower (2011)
OG Maco - OG Maco EP (2014)
Astrid S - Astrid S (2016)
Pete Rock & C.L. Smooth - All Souled Out (1991)
Lil B - Black Ken (2017)
Jewel - Spirit (1998)
Julie Roberts - Julie Roberts (2004)
Terri Clark - Life Goes On (2005)
Maggie Rose - Cut to Impress (2013)
Bomshel - Fight Like a Girl (2009)
Carrie Underwood - Carnival Ride (2007)
Mary J. Blige - STRONGER withEach Tear (2009)
Miguel - All I Want Is You (2010)
Sauce Walka - "Sauce Overload" (2017)
Carrie Underwood - Some Hearts (2005)
K-Ci & JoJo - Love Always (1997)
Lady Antebellum - 747 (2014)
Lee Ann Womack - I Hope You Dance (2000)
Tank - Now or Never (2010)
Thomas Rhett - Tangled Up (2016)
Heather Headley - In My Mind (2006)
Deda - The Original Baby Pa (1995)
Jon Pardi - California Sunrise (2016)
Sabrina Claudio - Confidently Lost (2017)
Maggie Rose - Dreams > Dollars (2017)
Lauren Alaina - Road Less Traveled (2017)
InI - Center of Attention (1995)
A$AP Mob - Cozy Tapes Vol. 2: Too Cozy (2017)
Taylor Swift - "Look What You Made Me Do" (2017)
Astrid S - "Think Before I Talk" (2017)
Lil Uzi Vert - Luv Is Rage (2015)
Hodgy - The Dena Tape (2009)
Funkmaster Flex - The Mix Tape Volume 1: 60 Minutes of Funk (1995)
MellowHype - YelloWhite (2010)
September
Rebecca Black - "Heart Full of Scars" (2017)
Frank Ocean - "Provider" (2017)
Ice Cube - Death Certificate (1991)
Mike G - Ali (2010)
The Jet Age of Tomorrow (feat. MarkUsFree) - "Fly Like Me" (2017)
The Jet Age of Tomorrow - Voyager (2010)
Waka Flocka Flame & Slim Dunkin - Twin Towers 2: No Fly Zone (2011)
Waka Flocka Flame - Salute Me or Shoot Me 2 (2009)
Waka Flocka Flame - LeBron Flocka James (2009)
Waka Flocka Flame - LeBron Flocka James 2 (2010)
Domo Genesis - Rolling Papers (2010)
MellowHype - BlackenedWhite (2010)
Syd - Always Never Home (2017)
Julia Michaels - Nervous System (2017)
Bebe Rexha - All Your Fault: Pt. 1 (2017)
ZZ Ward - Love and War (2015)
XXXTENTACION - 17 (2017)
Taylor Swift - "...Ready for It?" (2017)
A$AP Twelvyy - 12 (2017)
Bebe Rexha - All Your Fault: Pt. 2 (2017)
Camp Lo - Uptown Saturday Night (1997)
Casey Veggies - Live & Grow (2015)
Ed Sheeran - x (2014)
Halsey - hopeless fountain kingdom (2017)
Katelyn Tarver - Tired Eyes (2017)
Havoc & Prodeje - Livin' in a Crime Wave (1993)
Jessie Reyez - Kiddo (2017)
Janet Jackson - The Velvet Rope (1997)
Kacy Hill - Like a Woman (2017)
Bloods - Damu Ridas (1995)
Kris Kross - Da Bomb (1993)
Crips - Nationwide Rip Ridaz (1995)
2Pac - 2Pacalypse Now (1991)
2Pac - All Eyez on Me (1996)
2Pac - The Don Killuminati: The 7 Day Theory (1996)
House of Pain - House of Pain (1992)
House of Pain - Same as It Ever Was (1994)
P!nk - The Truth About Love (2012)
Rebecca Black - RE / BL (2017)
Ice Cube - The Predator (1992)
Waka Flocka Flame - Flockaveli (2010)
Ashe - "Used to It" (2017)
Bloods & Crips - Bangin' on Wax: Greatest Hits (1996)
Tricky - Maxinquaye (1995)
YG - Red Friday (2016)
Somethin' for the People - Somethin' for the People (1993)
Mista - Mista (1996)
Lords of the Underground - Keepers of the Funk (1994)
Madeon - Adventure (2015)
Sigrid - Don't Kill My Vibe (2017)
Koffee Brown - Mars/Venus (2001)
Ed Sheeran - ÷ (2017)
AJR - The Click (2017)
Playboi Carti - Playboi Carti (2017)
Charli XCX - Number 1 Angel (2017)
MPR Tito - Bak on Turf (2017)
ZZ Ward - The Storm (2017)
The Click - Down and Dirty (1992)
Ginuwine - Ginuwine... The Bachelor (1996)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - Designer Drugz 2 (2016)
Snoop Dogg - Neva Left (2017)
Snoop Dogg - COOLAID (2016)
Blue October - Home (2016)
Tyler, The Creator - Wolf (2013)
The Internet - Purple Naked Ladies (2011)
Domo Genesis - Under the Influence (2011)
Odd Future - Radical (2010)
Nu Beginning - Nu Beginning (1993)
Supa Dupa Humble (feat. Mills Supreme) - "Steppin" (2017)
Gabbie Hanna - "Out Loud" (2017)
Hannah Ellis - "Temporary Feeling" (2017)
Hannah Ellis - "ILYSoWhat" (2017)
October
Kendrick Lamar - To Pimp a Butterfly (2015)
Frank Ocean - nostalgia, ULTRA (2011)
Mike G - Award Tour EP (2011)
Hodgy - Untitled EP (2012)
Odd Future - 12 Odd Future Songs (2011)
brandUn DeShay - All Day DeShay: AM (2011)
MadeinTYO - You Are Forgiven (2016)
Rex Orange County - bcos u will never b free (2015)
Rex Orange County - Apricot Princess (2017)
Vince Staples - Hell Can Wait (2014)
2 Chainz - Me Against the World (2007)
Vince Staples - Summertime '06 (2015)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - Designer Drugz 3 (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan & DrugRixh Pe$o - MONY POWR RSPT World (2016)
2 Chainz - All Ice on Me Disc 1 (2009)
2 Chainz - All Ice on Me Disc 2 (2009)
2 Chainz - Trap-A-Velli (2009)
2 Chainz - Me Against the World 2: Codeine Withdrawal (2010)
2 Chainz - Trap-A-Velli 2: The Residue (2010)
2 Chainz - T.R.U. REALigion (2012)
Marqo 2 Fresh - Dancing With the Devil (2017)
November
Playboi Carti (feat. UnoTheActivist) - "WHAT" (2016)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan & Jose Guapo - Million Dollar Plugs 2 (2016)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. Lil Yachty and ILoveMakonnen) - "I'll Be Damned" (2016)
6LACK (feat. Jhené Aiko) - "First Fuck" (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan & DrugRixh Pe$o - MONY POWR RSPT World Rules (2017)
Astrid S - "Think Before I Talk (Acoustic)" (2017)
Bea Miller - chapter one: blue (2017)
Bea Miller - chapter two: red (2017)
Bea Miller - chapter three: yellow (2017)
The Black Keys - Brothers (2010)
Adrian Marcel - 7 Days of WEAK (2013)
24hrs - Night Shift (2017)
6LACK - "Bless Me" (2016)
6LACK - "Loyal" (2016)
Aminé - Good for You (2017)
JoJo - Mad Love. (2016)
Kelsea Ballerini - Unapologetically (2017)
Hannah Ellis - Hannah Ellis (2017)
Soul for Real - Candy Rain (1995)
6LACK - "That Far" (2017)
21 Savage, Offset & Metro Boomin - Without Warning (2017)
Crystal Shawanda - Dawn of a New Day (2008)
Next - Rated Next (1997)
Zara Larsson - So Good (2017)
W. Hasani Miller - "Navy Blue" (2016)
Panic! at the Disco - Too Weird to Live, Too Rare to Die! (2013)
Wintertime - "Thru It All" (2016)
Tim McGraw & Faith Hill - "Telluride" (2017)
Aly & AJ - "Take Me" (2017)
Aly & AJ - "I Know" (2017)
Ashe - "Girl Who Cried Wolf" (2017)
Lucy Hale - "Mistletoe" (2014)
Hailee Steinfeld - "Most Girls" (2017)
Rhyon - Pretty Girl (2017)
Cam - "Diane" (2017)
Frank Ocean - "Chanel" (2017)
MadeinTYO - Thank You, Mr. Tokyo (2016)
Jhené Aiko - Trip (2017)
fun. - Some Nights (2012)
Lucy Hale - "You're Here" (2017)
Aly & AJ - Ten Years (2017)
Mook SkyWalker - "Street Christmas" (2015)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. Soulja Boy) - "1, 2" (2015)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan & Quavo - "QuaBlo" (2016)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - "Heavyweight" (2016)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - "Fuck da Haters" (2016)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. Famous Dex and Rich The Kid) - "Diamond Dance" (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. Playboi Carti) - "Servin' & Swervin'" (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - "IWFYB" (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan (feat. Lil Duke & Jose Guapo) - "Goin' Up" (2017)
Sabrina Carpenter - "Why (Acoustic)" (2017)
Macy Maloy - “Bleed” (2017)
6ix9ine - “GUMMO” (2017)
Ski Mask The Slump God - “Catch Me Outside” (2017)
Danielle Bradbery - “Worth It” (2017)
Ella Vos - “I Know You Care” (2017)
Ashanti (feat. Ty Dolla $ign) - “Say Less” (2017)
Janelle Kroll - “Numb” (2015)
Janelle Kroll - “Sunny Days” (2015)
I’m With Her - “See You Around” (2017)
I’m With Her - “Little Lies” (2017)
I’m With Her - “Crossing Muddy Waters” (2015)
I’m With Her - “Be My Husband” (2015)
N.E.R.D (feat. Rihanna) - “Lemon” (2017)
Migos (feat. Cardi B and Nicki Minaj) - “MotorSport” (2017)
Selena Gomez & Marshmello - "Wolves" (2017)
autumn keys - nowhere ep (2016)
Hayley Kiyoko - "Feelings" (2017)
Hayley Kiyoko - A Belle to Remember (2013)
Bryson Tiller - "Let Me Explain" (2016)
Alessia Cara - "The Other Side" (2017)
Denzel Curry - "Ultimate" (2015)
Dounia - Intro To (2017)
GASHI - “No No No” (2017)
Sophie Rose - “Two Young Lovers” (2017)
J. Cole - “High for Hours” (2017)
Kiiara - “Wishlist” (2017)
Bea Miller - “brand new eyes” (2017)
Aly & AJ - Insomniatic (2007)
Sleepdealer - homesick (2017)
Grace VanderWaal - Just the Beginning (2017)
autumn keys (feat. jamvvis) - “Haunted” (2017)
autumn keys - l u v e p (2016)
Jeru the Damaja - Wrath of the Math (1996)
Das EFX - Dead Serious (1992)
Das EFX - Straight Up Sewaside (1993)
Carmen - DIY (2017)
Chelsea Cutler - Snow in October EP (2017)
Cheyenne Goss - It Is Written (2017)
Cousin Stizz (feat. Offset) - "Headlock" (2017)
Daniella Mason - Daniella Mason (2017)
Frank Ocean - "Lens" (2017)
Frank Ocean (feat. JAY Z and Tyler, The Creator) - "Biking" (2017)
Hailee Steinfeld & Alesso (feat. Florida Georgia Line and watt) - "Let Me Go" (2017)
Halsey - Room 93 (2014)
Jhené Aiko - "Living Room Flow" (2015)
Kelsea Ballerini - The First Time (2015)
Kut Klose - Surrender (1995)
Tyler, The Creator - Cherry Bomb (2015)
Travis Scott - "Butterfly Effect" (2017)
Supa Dupa Humble - Humble Gardens (2017)
Smooky MarGielaa - "Mozart" (2017)
Ski Mask The Slump God - "Like a Soccer Mom" (2016)
Selena Gomez - Revival (2015)
Sabrina Claudio - About Time (2017)
Fifth Harmony - 7/27 (2016)
Willow Smith - The 1st (2017)
Hoodrich Pablo Juan - "Money on Fleek" (2017)
Princess Nokia - 1992 Deluxe (2017)
Krept & Konan - 7 Days (2017)
KAYTRANADA - 99.9% (2016)
BANKS - The Altar (2016)
GoldLink - And After That, We Didn't Talk (2015)
Halsey - BADLANDS (2015)
Maisie Peters - "Place We Were Made" (2017)
Maisie Peters - "Birthday" (2017)
Phoebe Ryan - "Boyz n Poizn" (2016)
DrugRixh Pe$o - DrugRixh (2016)
IZA Lach - Boss Lady Presents: An IZA Christmas (2012)
Tyler, The Creator - "Lucky Charms" (2012)
December
Charlotte Day Wilson - CDW (2016)
Ella Mai - CHANGE (2016)
Ella Mai - "Naked" (2017)
Ella Mai - READY (2017)
Ella Mai - Time (2016)
Smooky MarGielaa - "Stay '100'" (2017)
Smooky MarGielaa - "Not Right" (2017)
Gabbie Hanna - "Satellite" (2017)
Bailey Bryan - "Too Good" (2017)
Bailey Bryan - So Far (2017)
Kirsten Collins - "Grown Men Cry" (2017)
Lost Kings (feat. Sabrina Carpenter) - "First Love" (2017)
Ski Mask The Slump God - SLAPS FOR MY DROP-TOP MINI-VAN (2016)
Vince Staples - Prima Donna (2016)
Pi'erre Bourne - The Life of Pi'erre (2016)
Pi’erre Bourne - The Life of P’ierre 2 (2016)
Pi’erre Bourne - The Life of Pi’erre 3 (2016)
Vince Staples - Big Fish Theory (2017)
Earl Sweatshirt - solace (2015)
Future - HNDRXX (2017)
Ski Mask The Slump God - DROWN IN DESIGNER (2016)
Ski Mask The Slump God - VERY LOST RARE FILES (2016)
XXXTENTACION - The Fall (2014)
Boyz II Men - Cooleyhighharmony (1991)
YG (feat. Blac Youngsta and YFN Lucci) - “YNS” (2017)
Charli XCX - “Boys” (2017)
Kesha - “Learn to Let Go” (2017)
Vic Mensa - The Autobiography (2017)
Bas - Too High to Riot (2016)
XXXTENTACION - Ice Hotel (2014)
XXXTENTACION - ItWasntEnough (2016)
XXXTENTACION - WILLY WONKA WAS A CHILD MURDERER (2016)
J.I.D - The Never Story (2017)
Ari Lennox - PHO (2016)
Ari Lennox - "Bound" (2014)
ZZ Ward - Til the Casket Drops (2012)
Sofia Bartra - Rebel (2016)
DGOE - Audio Dope (2017)
NAO - For All We Know (2016)
NAO - “Nostalgia” (2017)
NAO - “Fool to Love” (2016)
NAO - So Good (2014)
NAO - February 15 (2016)
XXXTENTACION - A GHETTO CHRISTMAS CAROL! (2017)
Jodeci - Forever My Lady (1991)
Jodeci - Diary of a Mad Band (1993)
6LACK - FREE 6LACK (2016)
Playboi Carti - “Broke Boi” (2015)
Philippa Hanna - Come Back Fighting (2017)
Mujo - Reincarnation (2017)
DRAM - #1HappyHoliday (2017)
Pete Rock - Lost Sessions (2017)
Bella Hardy - Hey Sammy (2017)
The Staves & yMusic - The Way Is Read (2017)
Fabolous & Jadakiss - Friday on Elm Street (2017)
Yellow Claw (feat. STORi) - "Both of Us" (2017)
Roy Woods (feat. dvsn and PnB Rock) - "Balance" (2017)
Phoebe Bridgers - "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas" (2017)
King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard - Polygondwanaland (2017)
Ralo - Plugged In with the Cartel (2017)
99 Percent (feat. Sage The Gemini) - "I'm Sorry" (2017)
Anomalie - "No Way" (2017)
Carlie Hanson - "Only One" (2017)
Arin Way - "Stressin" (2017)
Pi'erre Bourne (feat. Playboi Carti) - "Yo Pi'erre" (2017)
Carlie Hanson - "Why Did You Lie?" (2017)
Noel Gallagher's High Flying Birds - Who Built the Moon? (2017)
Kodak Black - Project Baby (2013)
Earl Sweatshirt (feat. Tyler, The Creator & Hodgy) - “Fuck This Christmas” (2010)
Slim Dunkin - Built 4 Interrogation (2010)
Tay-K - #SantanaWorld (2017)
Kodak Black - Project Baby 2: All Grown Up (2017)
Amtrac - "Companions" (2017)
First Aid Kit - "Fireworks" (2017)
Jessie Reyez - "Phone Calls" (2017)
Jessie Reyez - "Cotton Candy" (2017)
Nipsey Hu$$le - "Rap Niggas" (2017)
Codes - Pleasure EP (2017)
Chief Keef - Dedication (2017)
Danielle Bradbery - I Don't Believe We've Met (2017)
Sasha Sloan - "Runaway" (2017)
Miguel - War & Leisure (2017)
blackbear - cybersex (2017)
DrugRixh Pe$o - DrugRixh 2 (2017)
Quality Control - Quality Control: Control the Streets Volume 1 (2017)
XXXTENTACION - Revenge (2017)
Members Only - Members Only, Vol. 1 (2015)
Members Only - Members Only, Vol. 2 (2015)
UnoTheActivist - No More Thotties (2015)
Young Kros Beats - Metropolitan Lofts (2017)
Chris Brown - Chris Brown (2005)
Ski Mask The Slump God - "WTF!?" (2017)
Chris Brown - Exclusive - The Forever Edition (2008)
brandUn DeShay - goldUn Child (2015)
Ace Hashimoto - goldUn Child: 2 (2016)
Pi'erre Bourne - "Blowin' Minds (Freestyle)" (2017)
Chris Brown - Graffiti (2009)
brandUn DeShay - Your Favorite! MixTape 2 (2012)
Chris Brown & Tyga - Fan of a Fan (2010)
Mateo Sun - "Floatin'" (2017)
Foggieraw - "Look Like Porzingis" (2017)
JANUARY
Total:
 146 Albums
Bob Dylan: 
Highway 61 Revisited
 (1965) | January 1st
Nina Simone: 
Wild Is the Wind
 (1966) | January 1st
Frank Ocean: 
Blonde
 (2016) | January 1st
The Beatles: 
Revolver
 (1966) | January 1st
OutKast: 
Stankonia
 (2000) | January 1st
The Cure: 
Faith
 (1981) | January 1st
The Rolling Stones: 
Some Girls
 (1978) | January 1st
TELE/VISIONS: 
Wild Heart
 (2013) | January 1st
Frank Ocean: 
channel ORANGE
 (2012) | January 1st
KIDS SEE GHOSTS: 
KIDS SEE GHOSTS
 (2018) | January 1st
Acid Ghost: 
Vacation II
 (2016) | January 2nd
Acid Ghost: 
WARHOL
 (2016) | January 2nd
salvia palth: 
melanchole
 (2013) | January 2nd
Sonic Youth: 
Goo
 (1990) | January 2nd
Pixies: 
Surfer Rosa
 (1988) | January 2nd
Minutemen: 
Double Nickels on the Dime
 (1984) | January 2nd
Pixies: 
Doolittle
 (1989) | January 2nd
New Order: 
Power, Corruption and Lies
 (1983) | January 2nd
The Cars: 
The Cars
 (1978) | January 2nd
Gang of Four: 
Entertainment!
 (1979) | January 2nd
Funkadelic: 
Maggot Brain
 (1971) | January 3rd
The Rolling Stones: 
Sticky Fingеrs
 (1971) | January 3rd
Horse Jumper of Love: 
Horsе Jumper of Love
 (2017) | January 3rd
Prince & The Revolution: 
Purple Rain
 (1984) | January 3rd
Saba: 
CARE FOR ME
 (2018) | January 3rd
Frank Ocean: 
Endless
 (2016) | January 3rd
Kid Cudi: 
Man on the Moon: The End of Day
 (2009) | January 3rd
Freddie Gibbs, Madlib: 
Piñata
 (2014) | January 3rd
Kanye West: 
The College Dropout
 (2004) | January 3rd
D’Angelo: 
Voodoo
 (2000) | January 3rd
TELE/VISIONS: 
2013
 (2014) | January 3rd
The Cure: 
Seventeen Seconds
 (1980) | January 3rd->4th
John Coltrane: 
A Love Supreme
 (1965) | January 4th
Pixies: 
Bossanova
 (1990) | January 4th
Lou Reed: 
Coney Island Baby
 (1976) | January 4th
Joy Division: 
Closer
 (1980) | January 4th
The Beach Boys: 
Pet Sounds
 (1966) | January 5th
Kanye West: 
ye
 (2018) | January 6th
Wire: 
Pink Flag
 (1977) | January 6th
Lou Reed: 
Street Hassle
 (1978) | January 7th
Weezer: 
Weezer
 (1994) | January 7th
Joy Division: 
Unknown Pleasures
 (1979) | January 7th
Tommy James & The Shondells: 
Crimson & Clover
 (1969) | January 7th
The Doors: 
The Doors
 (1967) | January 7th
David Bowie: 
The Rise & Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars
 (1972) | January 7th
Talking Heads: 
Fear of Music
 (1979) | January 7th
Lil Uzi Vert: 
Eternal Atake
 (2020) | January 8th
Kendrick Lamar: 
good kid, m.A.A.d city
 (2012) | January 8th
salvia palth: 
melanchole (remaster)
 (2016) | January 8th
Maroon 5: 
Overexposed
 (2012) | January 9th
Juice WRLD: 
Goodbye & Good Riddance
 (2018) | January 10th
yxngxr1: 
Childhood Dreams
 (2019) | January 11th
Kanye West: 
Yeezus
 (2013) | January 11th
XXXTENTACION: 
17
 (2017) | January 11th
Kanye West: 
My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy
 (2010) | January 11th
Nina Simone: 
Pastel Blues
 (1965) | January 11th
Travis Scott: 
ASTROWORLD
 (2018) | January 12th
Rick Springfield: 
Working Class Dog
 (1981) | January 12th
13th Floor Elevators: 
The Psychedelic Sounds of the 13th Floor Elevators
 (1966) | January 12th
The Beatles: 
A Hard Day's Night (U.S Soundtrack)
 (1964) | January 12th
Kanye West: 
Graduation
 (2007) | January 13th
Tyler, The Creator: 
CHERRY BOMB
 (2015) | January 13th
The Cure: 
Pornography
 (1982) | January 13th
SZA: 
CTRL
 (2017) | January 14th
Bon Iver: 
For Emma, Forever Ago
 (2008) | January 15th
Bruno Mars: 
Doo Wops & Hooligans
 (2010) | January 15th
The Smiths: 
The Queen is Dead
 (1986) | January 15th
XXXTENTACION: 
?
 (2018) | January 15th
Rex Orange County: 
Pony
 (2019) | January 15th
The Beatles: 
Help! [U.K]
 (1965) | January 15th
Bruno Mars: 
Unorthodox Jukebox
 (2012) | January 16th
Lil Uzi Vert: 
Luv is Rage 2
 (2017) | January 16th
Eminem: 
The Marshall Mathers LP
 (2000) | January 16th
Mac Miller: 
Circles
 (2020) | January 16th
Patti Smith: 
Horses
 (1976) | January 17th
Kanye West: 
The Life of Pablo
 (2016) | January 17th
Krack: 
Funk Wagon McGuillicuddy
 (1990) | January 17th
The Jimi Hendrix Experience: 
Axis: Bold As Love
 (1967) | January 17th
The Smiths: 
Hatful of Hollow
 (1984) | January 17th
MC5: 
Kick Out The Jams
 (1969) | January 18th
The Stooges: 
The Stooges
 (1969) | January 18th
Blue Cheer: 
Vincebus Eruptum
 (1968) | January 18th
The Ramones: 
Ramones
 (1976) | January 19th
Sonic Youth: 
Daydream Nation
 (1988) | January 19th
X: 
Los Angeles
 (1980) | January 19th
Sonic Youth: 
Sister
 (1987) | January 19th
The Chantays: 
Pipeline
 (1963) | January 19th
Marvin Gaye: 
What's Going On
 (1971) | January 20th
My Bloody Valentine: 
Loveless
 (1991) | January 20th
Blondie: 
Parallel Lines
 (1978) | January 20th
Sonic Youth: 
EVOL
 (1986) | January 20th
Sonic Youth: 
Washing Machine
 (1995) | January 21st
Lou Reed: 
Rock 'N' Roll Animal
 (1974) | January 21st
Talking Heads: 
Talking Heads: 77
 (1970) | January 21st
Sonic Youth: 
Confusion is Sex
 (1983) | January 21st
Talking Heads: 
Little Creatures
 (1985) | January 21st
Talking Heads: 
Remain in Light
 (1980) | January 21st
Talking Heads: 
More Songs About Buildings and Food
 (1978) | January 22nd
Talking Heads: 
SP EAK IN GI N TO NGU ES
 (1983) | January 22nd
Death Grips: 
The Money Store
 (2012) | January 22nd
Misfits: 
Walk Among Us
 (1982) | January 23rd
Green Day: 
Dookie
 (1994) | January 23rd
The Velvet Underground: 
White Light/White Heat
 (1968) | January 23rd
Grimes: 
Visions
 (2012) | January 23rd
Macintosh Plus: 
フローラルの専門店
 (2011) | January 23rd
Glenn Branca: 
The Ascension
 (1981) | January 24th
Pink Floyd: 
Animals
 (1977) | January 24th
Prince: 
1999
 (1982) | January 24th
The Shaggs: 
Philosophy of the World
 (1969) | January 24th
The Modern Lovers: 
The Modern Lovers
 (1976) | January 24th
black midi: 
Schlagenheim
 (2019) | January 24th
Television: 
Marquee Moon
 (1977) | January 24th
H2O: 
H2O
 (1996) | January 25th
American Football: 
american football
 (1999) | January 25th
H2O: 
Thicker Than Water
 (1997) | January 25th
H2O: 
F.T.T.W
 (1999) | January 25th
Sonic Youth: 
Bad Moon Rising
 (1985) | January 25th
H2O: 
Nothing to Prove
 (2008) | January 25th
H2O: 
Use Your Voice
 (2015) | January 25th
The Velvet Underground: 
The Velvet Underground & Nico
 (1967) | January 25th
The Smiths: 
The Smiths
 (1984) | January 26th
Pink Floyd: 
The Dark Side of the Moon
 (1973) | January 26th
H2O: 
Don't Forget Your Roots
 (2011) | January 27th
H2O: 
Go
 | January 27th
Big Black: 
Songs About Fucking
 (1987) | January 27th
New Order: 
Movement
 (1981) | January 28th
Nirvana: 
Bleach
 (1989) | January 29th
Pink Floyd: 
Meddle
 (1971) | January 29th
Creedence Clearwater Revival: 
Green River
 (1969) | January 29th
Nick Drake: 
Pink Moon
 (1972) | January 29th
Madonna: 
True Blue
 (1986) | January 29th
Duran Duran: 
Rio
 (1982) | January 29th
The Rolling Stones: 
Exile On Main St.
 (1972) | January 30th
The Smiths: 
Strangeways, Here We Come
 (1987) | January 30th
Sade: 
Diamond Life
 (1984) | January 30th
Alice Coltrane: 
Journey in Satchidananda
 (1971) | January 30th
Weezer: 
OK Human
 (2021) | January 31st
Prince: 
Dirty Mind
 (1980) | January 31st
Michael Jackson: 
Off the Wall
 (1979) | January 31st
Weezer: 
Pinkerton
 (1996) | January 31st
Weezer: 
Weezer
 (2001) | January 31st
Madvillain: 
Madvillainy
 (2004) | January 31st
Wipers: 
Youth of America
 (1981) | January 31st
Daughters!: 
Canada Songs
 (2003) | January 31st
The Beatles: 
Abbey Road
 (1969) | January 31st
Nails: 
Unsilent Death
 (2010) | January 31st
FEBRUARY
Total:
 40 Albums
Minutemen: The Punch Line (1981) | February 1st
Sonic Youth: diRty (1992) | February 2nd
My Bloody Valentine: m b v (2013) | February 2nd
The Velvet Underground: The Velvet Underground (1969) | February 2nd
New Order: Low-Life (1985) | February 3rd
New Order: Brotherhood (1986) | February 3rd
Kraftwerk: Trans-Europa Express (1977) | February 3rd
New Order: Technique (1989) | February 4th
The Cure: Three Imaginary Boys (1979) | February 4th
The Velvet Underground: Loaded (1970) | February 5th
Mother Mother: O My Heart (2008) | February 5th
Fleetwood Mac: Rumors (1977) | February 6th
Funkadelic: Funkadelic (1970) | February 7th
N.W.A: Straight Outta Compton (1988) | February 8th
The Chantays: Two Sides Of The Chantays (1963) | February 9th
Elvis Presley: Elvis Presley (1956) | February 10th
Acid Ghost: I Want To Hide My Face And Die. (2015) | February 10th
Deftones: White Pony (2000) | February 11th
Pink Floyd: The Piper At The Gates Of Dawn (1967) | February 11th
Michael Jackson: Thriller (1982) | February 12th
Prince: Controversy (1981) | February 13th
Prince & The Revolution: Around The World In A Day (1985) | February 14th
Drake: Nothing Was the Same (2013) | February 14th
Bob Dylan: Blonde On Blonde (1966) | February 15th
Nas: Illmatic (1994) | February 16th
Danny Brown: Atrocity Exhibition (2016) | February 17th
Earl Sweatshirt: Some Rap Songs (2018) | February 18th
Nina Simone: High Priestess Of Soul (1967) | February 19th
Television: Adventure (1978) | February 20th
Deftones: Ohms (2020) | February 20th
Charles Manson: LIE: The Love And Terror Cult (1970) | February 21st
Nina Simone: In Concert (1964) | February 21st
MC5: Back In The USA (1970) | February 22nd
Emily Montes: Emily Montes (2020) | February 23rd
The Replacements: Pleased To Meet Me (1987) | February 24th
Tool: Undertow (1993) | February 25th
Janis Joplin: Pearl (1971) | February 26th
Nirvana: Nevermind (1991) | February 27th
The Look: The Look UK (1981) | February 28th
MARCH
Total:
 63 Albums
My Bloody Valentine: Isn't Anything (1988) | March 1st
Neutral Milk Hotel: In The Aeroplane Over The Sea (1998) | March 1st
New York Dolls: New York Dolls (1973) | March 1st
Brian Eno: Before And After Science (1977) | March 2nd
The Beatles: Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (1967) | March 2nd
Fiona Apple: Fetch The Bolt Cutters (2020) | March 2nd
Brian Eno: Another Green World (1975) | 10/10 | March 3rd
Love: Forever Changes (1967) | March 3rd
Brian Eno: Taking Tiger Mountain (By Strategy) | March 3rd
Wire: Chairs Missing (1978) | March 4th
Sonic Youth: Daydream Nation (1988) | March 4th
The Replacements: Let It Be (1984) | March 4th
Daft Punk: Discovery (2001) | March 5th
Nico: Chelsea Girls (1967) | March 5th
The Doors: Strange Days (1967) | March 6th
Nirvana: In Utero (1994) | March 6th
The Beatles: The Beatles (1968) | March 6th
Descendants: Milo Goes To College (1982) | March 7th
Los Crudos: Canciones Para Liberar Nuestras Fronteras (1996) | March 7th
The Sonics: Here Are The Sonics!!! (1965) | March 7th
Agent Orange: Living In Darkness (1981) | March 8th
Assück: Misery Index (1997) | March 8th
Kenny Dorham: Afro-Cuban (1955) | March 8th
Andrew Jackson Jihad: People Who Can Eat People Are The Luckiest People In The World (2007) | March 9th
Cap’n Jazz: Burritos, Inspiration Point, Fork Balloon Sports, Cards In The Spokes, Automatic Biographies, Kites, Kung Fu, Trophies, Banana Peels We’ve Slipped On And Egg Shells We’ve Stepped Over (1995) | March 9th
Karate: the bed is in the ocean (1998) | March 9th
Various: You're So Square (2002) | March 10th
The Sonics: BOOM (1966) | March 10th
The Deep: Psychedelic Moods (A Mind Expanding Phenomena) (1966) | March 10th
The Lumineers: Cleopatra (2016) | March 11th
The Lumineers: III (2019) | March 11th
The Lumineers: The Lumineers (2012) | March 11th
Japan: Tin Drum (1981) | March 12th
Japan: Quiet Life (1979) | March 13th
The Velvet Underground: Live At Max's Kansas City (1972) | March 14th
Tape Waves: Distant Life (2018) | March 15th
The Clash: London Calling (1979) | March 15th
The Beach Boys: Smiley Smile (1967) | March 15th
The Beach Boys: Wild Honey (1967) | March 15th
Sex Pistols: Never Mind The Bollocks, Here’s The Sex Pistols (1977) | March 15th
Talk Talk: Spirit Of Eden (1988) | March 16th
The Beatles: Magical Mystery Tour (1967) | March 16th
Talk Talk: Laughing Stock (1991) | March 16th
The Rolling Stones: Let It Bleed (1969) | March 17th
Elvis Costello And The Attractions: This Year’s Model (1978) | March 18th
Radiohead: Kid A (2000) | March 18th
Serge Gainsbourg: Histoire De Melody Nelson (1971) | March 18th
John Lennon / The Plastic Ono Band: John Lennon / Plastic Ono Band (1970) | March 19th
Led Zeppelin: Led Zeppelin II (1969) | March 20th
King Crimson: In The Court Of The Crimson King (1969) | March 20th
The Stone Roses: The Stone Roses (1989) | March 21st
Cocteau Twins: Heaven Or Las Vegas (1990) | March 22nd
Galaxie 500: On Fire (1989) | March 22nd
X-Ray Spex: Germfree Adolescents (1978) | March 23rd
Boards Of Canada: music has the right to children (1998) | March 24th
Radiohead: OK Computer (1997) | March 24th
Hole: Live Through This (1994) | March 25th
Galaxie 500: Today (1988) | March 26th
Spiritualized: Ladies And Gentlemen We Are Floating In Space (1997) | March 27th
Wilco: Yankee Hotel Foxtrot (2001) | March 28th
Walt Mink: El Producto (1996) | March 29th
Bonnie "Prince" Billy: i see a darkness (1999) | March 30th
Elliott Smith: Either/Or (1997) | March 31st
APRIL
Total:
 47 Albums
Pavement: Slanted and Enchanted (1992) | April 1st
Bruce Springsteen: BORN TO RUN (1975) | April 2nd
The Fall: This Nation's Saving Grace (1985) | April 3rd
Radiohead: OK COMPUTER OKNOTOK 1997 2017 (2017) | April 4th
Modest Mouse: the lonesome crowded west (1997) | April 4th
Björk: Homogenic (1997) | April 5th
Radiohead: The Bends (1995) | April 5th
XTC: English Settlement (1982) | April 5th
PJ Harvey: Rid of Me (1993) | April 6th
The Flaming Lips: The Soft Bulletin (1999) | April 6th
Slint: Spiderland (1991) | April 6th
The Dismemberment Plan: Emergency & I (1999) | April 6th
David Bowie: "Heroes" (1977) | April 7th
David Bowie: Low (1977) | April 7th
David Bowie: Hunky Dory (1971) | April 7th
Acid Ghost: Vacation (2015) | April 8th
J Dilla: Donuts (2006) | April 9th
…And You Will Know Us By The Trail Of Dead: Source Tags and Codes (2002) | April 10th
Steely Dan: Aja (1977) | April 10th
DJ Shadow: Endtroducing..... (1996) | April 11th
Throbbing Gristle: 20 Jazz Funk Greats (1979) | April 11th
Jefferson Airplane: Surrealistic Pillow (1967) | April 12th
Public Image LTD.: Metal Box (1979) | April 12th
Bruce Springsteen: Nebraska (1982) | April 13th
Neil Young with Crazy Horse: Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere (1969) | April 14th
Glenn Gould: Bach: The Goldberg Variations (1955) | April 14th
Cocteau Twins: Blue Bell Knoll (1988) | April 15th
Roxy Music: For Your Pleasure (1973) | April 16th
R.E.M.: Murmur (1983) | April 17th
The Beatles: Rubber Soul (1965) | April 18th
Otis Redding: Otis Blue/Otis Redding Sings Soul (1965) | April 18th
The Grateful Dead: American Beauty (1970) | April 19th
Current Joys: B-Sides, Rarities and Demos (2014) | April 20th
The Beatles: A Hard Day’s Night (U.K)  (1964) | April 20th
Jay and the Americans: Jay And The Americans Greatest Hits (1965) | April 21st
The Smiths: Louder Than Bombs (1987) | April 22nd
Mobb Deep: The Infamous... (1995) | April 22nd
R.E.M.: Reckoning (1984) | April 23rd
Van Morrison: Astral Weeks (1968) | April 24th
Current Joys: Me Oh My Mirror (2015) | April 25th
Galaxie 500: This Is Our Music (1990) | April 26th
John Cale: Paris 1919 (1973) | April 27th
Al Green: Greatest Hits (1975) | April 28th
Drip-Fed: Kill the Buzz (2021) | April 29th
The Neighborhood: Wiped Out! (2015) | April 29th
Pavement: Crooked Rain, Crooked Rain (1994) | April 30th
MAY
Total:
 78 Albums
Ghostface Killah: Supreme Clientele (2000) | May 1st
GZA: Liquid Swords (1995) | May 1st
Aretha Franklin: Lady Soul (1968) | May 1st
Smashing Pumpkins: Siamese Dream [Deluxe Edition] (2011) | May 2nd
Björk: Post (1995) | May 2nd
R.E.M.: Document (1987) | May 2nd
Japan: Gentlemen Take Polaroids (1980) | May 3rd
Japan: Adolescent Sex (1978) | May 3rd
Japan: Obscure Alternatives (1978) | May 3rd
10,000 Maniacs: Secrets of the I Ching (1983) | May 4th
Metallica: Ride the Lightning (1984) | May 4th
Iggy and the Stooges: Raw Power (1973) | May 4th
Various: KIDS Original Soundtrack (1995) | May 5th
De La Soul: 3 Feet High and Rising (1989) | May 5th
Peeled: Open Window (2021) | May 5th
Slint: Tweez (1989) | May 6th
Dr. Dre: The Chronic (1992) | May 6th
Bob Dylan: Blood On The Tracks (1975) | May 6th
Mort Garson: Mother Earth's Plantasia (1976) | May 7th
Neil Young: After the Gold Rush (1970) | May 7th
Dolly Parton: Jolene (1974) | May 7th
Steve Reich: Music for 18 Musicians (1976) | May 8th
Herbie Hancock: Head Hunters (1973) | May 8th
Beastie Boys: Paul's Boutique (1989) | May 9th
A Tribe Called Quest: People's Instinctive Travels and the Paths of Rhythm (1990) | May 9th
Sonic Youth: Murray Street (2002) | May 9th
Carole King: Tapestry (1971) | May 9th
Captain Beefheart & His Magic Band: Trout Mask Replica (1969) | May 10th
The Band: The Band (1969) | May 10th
James Brown: Live at the Apollo (1963) | May 10th
Lo Down: Gangstaville (1994) | May 11th
Minor Threat: Out of Step (1982) | May 11th
Yo La Tengo: I Can Hear The Heart Beating As One (1997) | May 11th
Miles Davis: Sketches of Spain (1960) | May 11th
The Jesus and Mary Chain: PSYCHOCANDY (1985) | May 11th
Miles Davis: Kind of Blue (1959) | May 12th
Elliott Smith: Elliott Smith (1995) | May 13th
Galaxie 500: Peel Sessions (2005) | May 13th
Natalie Merchant: Tigerlily (1995) | May 13th
Current Joys: Voyager (2021) | May 14th
Neil Young: Tonight’s the Night (1975) | May 14th
Amy Winehouse: Back to Black (2006) | May 14th
Amon Tobin: Bricolage (1997) | May 15th
Randy Newman: Sail Away (1972) | May 16th
Flamin' Groovies: Teenage Head (1971) | May 16th
The United States of America: The United States of America (1968) | May 16th
Joni Mitchell: Blue (1971) | May 17th
Fela Kuti: Expensive Shit (1975) | May 17th
Joyce Manor: Joyce Manor (2011) | May 17th
Can: Tago Mago (1971) | May 18th
Liz Phair: Exile in Guyville (1993) | May 19th
Pixies: Trompe Le Monde (1991) | May 19th
Beach Fossils: Beach Fossils (2010) | May 20th
Galaxie 500: Copenhagen (1997) | May 21st
The Byrds: The Notorious Byrd Brothers (1968) | May 22nd
The Strokes: The New Abnormal (2020) | May 23rd
slowthai: TYRON (2021) | May 23rd
Salvatore Accardo: Capricci Vol. 1 (1962) | May 23rd
Salvator Accardo: Capricci Vol. 2 (1962) | May 23rd
Joni Mitchell: Court and Spark (1974) | May 24th
Ariana Grande: thank u, next (2019) | May 25th
Bee Bee Sea: Day Ripper (2020) | May 26th
Philip Glass / Robert Wilson: Einstein on the Beach (1979) | May 27th
KILLY: KILLSTREAK 2 (2021) | May 28th
Curtis Mayfield: There's No Place Like America (1975) | May 29th
Skepta: Konnichiwa (2016) | May 29th
J Hus: Common Sense (2017) | May 29th
Any Other: Silently. Quietly. Going Away (2015) | May 30th
Ski Mask the Slump God: STOKELEY (2018) | May 31st
Pusha T: DAYTONA (2018) | May 31st
bladee: gluee (2014) | May 31st
JUNE
Total:
 30 Albums
Ecco2k: e (2019) | June 1st
Kanye West: Late Registration (2005) | June 2nd
Sade: Promise (1985) | June 3rd
Sade: Love Deluxe (1992) | June 4th
Mazzy Star: So Tonight That I Might See You (1993) | June 5th
Slowdive: souvlaki (1993) | June 6th
Sade: Stronger than Pride (1988) | June 7th
Surf: Baddest Human (2020) | June 8th
Brent Faiyaz: Sonder Son (2017) | June 10th
Neil Young with Crazy Horse: Rust Never Sleeps (1979) | June 11th
Neil Young: Harvest (1973) | June 12th
The Kinks: Kinda Kinks (1965) | June 13th
The Who: Odds and Sods (1974) | June 14th
Tape Waves: Bright (2021) | June 15th
House Deposit: Reward For Effort (2019) | June 16th
Jonny Kosmo: Pastry (2021) | June 16th
Green Day: Father Of All Motherfuckers (2020) | June 17th
Post Punk Podge & The Technohippies: Euphoric Recall (2021) | June 18th
Stephen Murphy: A Way Back Home (2021) | June 18th
Dwarves: Thank Heaven For Little Girls (1991) | June 19th
The Band: Music From Big Pink (1968) | June 20th
Masayoshi Takanaka: All Of Me (1979) | June 21st
Billy Bragg: Life's a Riot with Spy vs. Spy (1983) | June 22nd
JID: The Never Story (2017) | June 23rd
Run the Jewels: RTJ4 (2020) | June 24th
Tyler, The Creator: CALL ME IF YOU GET LOST (2021) | June 25th
Green Day: American Idiot (2004) | June 26th
Tyler, The Creator: SCUM FUCK FLOWER BOY (2017) | June 28th
TOOL: lateralus (2001) | June 29th
The Rolling Stones: Tattoo You (1981) | June 30th
JULY
Total:
 32 Albums
Current Joys: 3 EPS (2013) | July 1st
Metallica: Master of Puppets (1986) | July 2nd
Surf Curse: Demos (2011) | July 3rd
Kate Bush: Hounds of Love (1986) | July 4th
Danny Rowland: N/A (2016) | July 5th
generation network: Generation (2013) | July 6th
PZA: CAPITAL CUSTOMER (2015) | July 7th
Prince: Sign "☮" the Times (1987) | July 8th
Crywank: Tomorrow is Nearly Yesterday and Everyday is Stupid (2013) | July 9th
Glenn Gould: Bach: The Goldberg Variations (1982) | July 10th
Bob Seger: Noah (1969) | July 11th
The Grateful Dead: American Beauty: The Angel's Share (Demos) (2020) | July 12th
The Grateful Dead: Workingman's Dead (1970) | July 13th
Green Day: nimrod. (1997) | July 14th
Elvis Costello: My Aim is True (1977) | July 15th
Simon & Garfunkel: Parsley, Sage, Rosemary & Thyme (1966) | July 16th
Elvis Costello: Live at the El Mocambo (1978) | July 17th
Simon & Garfunkel: Bridge Over Troubled Water (1970) | July 18th
Bakar: Badkid (2019) | July 19th
Mustafa: When Smoke Rises (2021) | July 20th
The Smiths: Meat is Murder (1985) | July 21st
Various: lille (2020) | July 22nd
Neil Young: On the Beach (1974) | July 23rd
Joni Mitchell: The Hissing of Summer Lawns (1975) | July 24th
Paul Simon: Graceland (1986) | July 25th
Brian Eno: Here Come the Warm Jets (1974) | July 26th
Prince & The Revolution: Purple Rain Deluxe - Expanded Edition (2017) | July 27th
Public Enemy: It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back (1988) | July 28th
the band in Heaven: Caught in a Summer Swell (2013) | July 29th
Billie Eilish: Happier Than Ever (2021) | July 30th
Bring Me The Horizon: amo (2019) | July 30th
Alice in Chains: DIRT (1992) | 9/10 | 							           July 31st
AUGUST
Total:
 32 Albums
The Cure: Disintegration (1989) | August 1st
The Rolling Stones: Aftermath (U.K.) (1966) | August 2nd
Ramones: Rocket to Russia (1977) | August 3rd
Elliott Smith: Either/Or: Expanded Edition (2017) | August 4th
David Bowie: Station to Station (1976) | August 5th
Pavement: Quarantine the Past (2010) | August 6th
Simon & Garfunkel: Sounds of Silence (1966) | August 7th
Bruce Springsteen: Born In the U.S.A. (1984) | August 8th
Eternal Storm: Come the Tide (2019) | August 9th
Surf Curse: Heaven Surrounds You (2019) | August 10th
Led Zeppelin: Physical Graffiti (1974) | August 11th
Feederz: Ever Feel Like Killing Your Boss? (1984) | August 12th
RIDE: Nowhere (1990) | August 13th
GUNS N' ROSES: APPETITE FOR DESTRUCTION (1987) | August 14th
The Smiths: "Rank" (1988) | August 15th
Bikini Kill: THE SINGLES (1998) | August 16th
Meat Puppets: Meat Puppets II (1983) | August 17th
Sonic Youth: Rather Ripped (2006) | August 18th
Elliott Smith: Elliott Smith: Expanded 25th Anniversary Edition (2020) | August 19th
The Who: My Generation (1966) | August 20th
the B-52's: wild planet (1980) | August 21st
Lingua Ignota: SINNER GET READY (2021) | August 22nd
Pavement: Slanted and Enchanted: Luxe & Reduxe (2002) | August 22nd
Elliott Smith: Roman Candle (1994) | August 23rd
Caetano Veloso: Caetano Veloso (1968) | August 24th
William Basinski: The Disintegration Loops (2002) | August 25th
Smashing Pumpkins: Siamese Dream (1993) | August 26th
Brian Eno: Ambient 1: Music for Airports (1978) | August 27th
Blondie: Blondie (1976) | August 28th
Kanye West: DONDA (2021) | August 29th
Bad Religion: SuFFer (1988) | August 30th
Joji: BALLADS 1 (2018) | August 31st
SEPTEMBER
Total:
 29 Albums
Bob Dylan: Live 1966 “The Royal Albert Hall Concert” The Bootleg Series Vol. 4 (1985) | September 2nd
Beach House: Teen Dream (2010) | September 3rd
Kindling: Everywhere Else (2016) | September 4th
Mister Goblin: Four People in an Elevator and One of Them is the Devil (2021) | September 5th
Knucks: NRG 105 (2020) | September 6th
the b52's: Mesopotamia (1982) | September 7th
Brian Eno & David Byrne: My Life in the Bush of Ghosts (1981) | September 8th
Neutral Milk Hotel: On Avery Island (1996) | September 9th
William Basinski: The Disintegration Loops II (2003) | September 10th
William Basinski: The Disintegration Loops III (2003) | September 11th
William Basinski: The Disintegration Loops IV (2003) | September 12th
R.E.M.: Murmur [Deluxe Edition] (2008) | September 13th
Weezer: Pinkerton [Deluxe Edition] (2010) | September 14th
R.E.M.: Reckoning [Deluxe Edition] (2009) | September 15th
Slayer: REIGN IN BLOOD (1986) | September 16th
Spiritbox: Eternal Blue (2021) | September 17th
Nick Drake: Five Leaves Left (1969) | September 18th
The Meters: LOOK-KA PY PY (1969) | September 19th
Miles Davis: THE COMPLETE BIRTH OF THE COOL (2019) | September 20th
Björk: Selmasongs: Music from the Motion Picture Soundtrack ‘Dancer in the Dark’ (2000) | September 21st
Daughters: You Won't Get What You Want (2018) | September 22nd
Suicide: Suicide (1977) | September 23rd
Tierra Whack: Whack World (2018) | September 24th
Tony Molina: Dissed and Dismissed (2013) | September 25th
teen suicide: i will be my own hell because there is a devil inside my body (2012) | September 26th
Yoko Ono / The Plastic Ono Band: Yoko Ono / The Plastic Ono Band (1970) | September 27th
duster: stratosphere (1998) | September 28th
Enrico Intra: Momento Intra (1978) | September 29th
Sebadoh: III (1991) | September 30th
OCTOBER
Total:
 25 Albums
ampere: like shadows (2011) | October 1st
Neil Young with Crazy Horse: ZUMA. (1975) | October 2nd
Gang Green: Another Wasted Night (1986) | October 3rd
Deftones: DIAMOND EYES (2010) | October 4th
Galaxie 500: The Portable Galaxie 500 (1998) | October 5th
Julia Brown: to be close to you (2013) | October 6th
Olivia Rodrigo: SOUR (2021) | October 7th
Starry Cat: Starry Cat (2015) | October 8th
The Notorious B.I.G.: Ready to Die (1994) | October 10th
Run-D.M.C.: RAISING HELL (1986) | October 11th
Modern English: Mesh & Lace (1981) | October 13th
Wire: 154 (1979) | October 14th
blink-182: Enema of the State (1999) | October 16th
Black Flag: DAMAGED (1981) | October 17th
100 gecs: 1000 gec (2019) | October 18th
TV Girl: Who Really Cares (2016) | October 19th
Teen Suicide: waste yrself (2012) | October 20th->21st
LOW: I COULD LIVE IN HOPE (1994) | October 22nd
Tyler, the Creator: IGOR (2019) | October 23rd
duster: contemporary movement (2000) | October 24th
Codeine: THE WHITE BIRCH (1994) | October 25th
Hobo Johnson: The Fall of Hobo Johnson (2019) | October 26th
Megan Thee Stallion: GOOD NEWS (2020) | October 27th
Joyce Manor: NEVER HUNGOVER AGAIN (2014) | October 30th
new Order: Low-life [Collector's Edition] (2008) | October 31st
NOVEMBER
Total:
 15 Albums
New Order: Power, Corruption & Lies [Collector's Edition] (2008) | November 1st
Modest Mouse: This Is a Long Drive for Someone With Nothing to Think About (1996) | November 2nd
Lil Nas X: MONTERO (2021) | November 3rd
NEW ORDER: MOVEMENT [Collector's Edition] (2008) | November 4th
TEARS FOR FEARS: Songs From The Big Chair (1985) | November 5th
New Order: Movement (Definitive) (2019) | November 6th
OMD: Dazzle Ships (1983) | November 7th
JA- Z: 4:44 (2017) | November 8th
Kendrick Lamar: DAMN. (2017) | November 9th
Sideshow: Wicked Man's Reprise (2021) | November 10th
The Police: Every Breath You Take: The Classics (1995) | November 11th
Quadeca: From Me To You (2021) | November 13th
Silk Sonic: An Evening With Silk Sonic (2021) | November 14th
Zillakami: DOGBOY (2018) | November 20th
Tracy Chapman: Tracy Chapman (1988) | November 27th
DECEMBER
Total:
 19 Albums
Deafheaven: S U N B A T H E R (2013) | December 1st
modest mouse: the moon & antarctica (2000) | December 2nd
weezer: weezer (2008) | December 4th
Lana Del Rey: NFR! (2019) | December 5th
Various: The Breakfast Club Original Soundtrack (1985) | December 6th
Lana Del Rey: Blue Banisters (2021) | December 7th
XTC: Skylarking (1986) | December 9th
modest mouse: BUILDING NOTHING OUT OF SOMETHING (1999) | December 11th
King Sunny Adé And His African Beats: Juju Music (1982) | December 12th
BAUHAUS: Mask (1984) | December 13th
Slint: spiderland (remastered) (2014) | December 14th
SALES: Sales LP (2016) | December 16th
Playboi Carti: Die Lit (2018) | December 18th
Prince: 1999 [Super Deluxe Edition] (2019) | December 19th
The Police: Zenyatta Mondatta (1980) | December 21st
The Ronettes: …presenting the fabulous RONETTES featuring VERONICA (1964) | December 22nd
THE CURE: GREATEST HITS (2001) | December 23rd
John Coltrane: The Olatunji Concert: The Last Live Recording (2001) | December 27th
OTIS REDDING: THE DOCK OF THE BAY (1968) | December 30th
